# The Verification of the Sacred Name of the Jade Emperor by Feng Guohua of Taizhou

Feng Guohua was an old woman of a certain place in Taizhou. In her earlier years she followed the Buddhist religion, and worshipped such as the repentance of the Gengshen day and the Ten Kings’ repentance; these were essentially spurious scriptures of the world, even including the so-called sacred names of “Namo Tianyuan Dabao Amitabha” and the like. The Buddhist and Taoist paths were not distinguished, and though she practised with earnest heart, yet it was difficult for her to attain the ultimate truth. The Taoist priests of the Purple Void Palace, seeing her eager desire for deliverance, taught her to recite the sacred name of the Jade Emperor, the Great Heavenly Lord who pardons sins. They told her, “The Western Pure Land is a foreign land; the Eastern Pure Land is China. If you die and go to a foreign land, there will be none to speak to you; how can there be convenience in China?” The old woman acquiesced. Thereupon she kept in heart the sacred name of the Heavenly Lord, seeking to be born in the Eastern land of the immortals. Though others advised her, she did not abandon her original resolve. After some time, her countenance became radiant, her hair and skin moist and bright. In the winter of the year Gengyin, she told her family she would take a bath with hot water; sitting towards the east in her chamber, she passed away peacefully. After death her bones and joints were soft and warm; all believed this to be a sign of her rebirth. The old women of the place hearing of this, it became a prevailing fashion, and multitudes took refuge in the Taoist path.

The Patriarch Bai Yuchan said, “It is better to hold the sacred name of the Jade Emperor Heavenly Lord for healing.” For those who learn the Way, if they are able to hold and recite the sacred name of the Heavenly Lord, they will surely be protected and aided by the Heavenly Lord. The Jade Emperor Repentance says, “May I attain the body of light, always be the light of the emperor, because of being received and embraced.” “May I attain the peerless body, the Supreme Emperor chants from afar, and myriad gods revere it.” If a man can recite the Way, the Way will also call upon the man. Those who cultivate the Way, why do they not exert themselves to do this? This indeed is a simple and easy method of cultivation; yet the Taoist sect does not promulgate it, because Taoist priests mostly seek to become immortals, and do not seek rebirth. Even if one obtains rebirth, it is but a rank of ghostly immortals, and hence the path of immortality is not esteemed. Nevertheless, if one could be reborn, would it not be better than descending to the evil realms of ghosts?
