# The Matter of the Burning of Money for the Departed by the Woman Taoist of Hunan

Wang Zongyi, a Woman Taoist of Hunan, was of gentle and mild disposition. In her youth she entered the monastic order at the Baopu Taoist Monastery in Hangzhou. When at Baopu Monastery, she heard that there was the custom of printing money for the departed and burning it as offerings for the souls without worshippers. Therefore she herself spent money to carve printing blocks. In leisure moments within the hall, she printed the money for the departed, and at dusk, whether at a crossroads, or beneath a great tree, or in a corner by the wall, she burned them as offerings to the souls without worshippers.

One night, after having finished burning the paper money, Wang Zongyi the Taoist master had a dream. She saw a girl of about thirteen or fourteen years of age, who said to the master Ding, "Thank you, Taoist master, for the money; I now have funds to learn the piano."

The Patriarch often said: Those who cultivate the Way must form good affinities with the Three Realms. Therefore, in the morning devotions one forms affinities with immortals, and in the evening devotions one forms affinities with ghosts. If one can widely present offerings and cultivate good affinities with ghosts and spirits, they will become your protectors and secretly aid you.

Master Ding once suffered from stomach disease and some other chronic ailments. Because he was diligent in cultivating the Way and widely formed good affinities, one day in a dream he received from a divine person instructions for a wondrous prescription. He followed the medical formula and took the herbs, and now his body is healthy and his life goes smoothly. The Taoist brethren of the same monastery all thought that that which gave the prescription was perhaps a manifestation in the dream, moved by Master Ding's unceasing charity, coming forth to rescue her. Or perhaps it was a pure and spiritual ghost skilled in the healing arts.
