# The Verification of the Wildfire Self-Extinguishing at the White Crane Temple in Junzhou

Near the Han River in Xiangnan County of Junzhou, at a distance of about ten li, there stands a temple called the White Crane Temple. It is built according to the contour of the mountain, overlooking the level plain; the woods and ravines are deep and secluded, the surroundings exceedingly fair. The elders of the place say, "When the Heavenly Sovereign Emperor performed the Fengshan sacrifice at Mount Dongyue, a white crane rested upon the altar of the sacrifice; whereupon the Son of Heaven commanded the erection of this White Crane Temple." In the time of Emperor Xuanzong of the Tang, during the Kaiyuan era, there was a recluse surnamed Ma who abode here cultivating the Dao; and one day he suddenly transformed and ascended on wing. The villagers then fashioned his image and held it in reverence.

By the end of the Xiantong period, because no Daoist had dwelt here for a long time, the halls and chambers gradually fell into decay, some walls had fallen, and the courtyard was overgrown with weeds. One day a wild fire, driven by a returning wind, in an instant rushed up to the eaves of the White Crane Temple. The villagers, seeing it, were greatly alarmed, and hastened to quench the flames. Suddenly, upon the eaves, there was a rushing down of water, which quenched the great fire. The villagers were greatly amazed, asking whence came this water? Looking up to heaven, the sun still shone brightly, and neither wind nor rain had fallen: the water which saved from disaster must assuredly have been by divine power.
