# The Spirit Manifestation of the Ten-Character Heavenly Scripture Recited by Mistress Lin Yin of Wenzhou

Lin Yin was a native of Yongjia in Wenzhou. She dwelt in the Wangfu Mansion in Wenzhou. It is said that the ground on which the Wangfu Mansion stands was formerly an execution ground; hence many strange and supernatural occurrences were frequent. In the course of a year, several persons leapt from the building to their deaths. When four sat playing mahjong, nine hands would touch the tiles. Such incidents were numerous. Some geomancers said that it was because the name "Wangfu Mansion" was too grandiose, and ill suited to a building in a small locality.

After Mistress Lin removed to the Wangfu Mansion, at first all was well, but subsequently she was often pressed by ghosts in her sleep, and found herself unable to breathe. Or at midnight noises would arise in her chamber, as if something were being thrown. Mistress Lin was greatly troubled, and so sought the advice of a Daoist elder-brother. This disciple of the Dao told her: 'There is a deity in the Daoist faith called "The Revered Heavenly Sovereign of the Nine Heavens, Responding to the Primordial Thunder, Universally Transforming". The Sovereign has made a great vow; with sincere heart in pronouncing his name, one obtains the protection of his thunderous majesty, and the malevolent spirits are driven away. You may try chanting the precious name of the Sovereign.'

Mistress Lin followed the instructions of this elder-brother, silently repeating the sacred name of the Sovereign many times each night. Once, awakened at midnight, she saw beyond the window black shadows moving in throngs, and chilling winds blowing in gusts. She hastily chanted: 'The Revered Heavenly Sovereign of the Nine Heavens, Responding to the Primordial Thunder, Universally Transforming.' The black shadows vanished in an instant.

With earnest heart she chanted: The Revered Heavenly Sovereign of the Nine Heavens, Responding to the Primordial Thunder, Universally Transforming! The Revered Heavenly Sovereign of the Nine Heavens, Responding to the Primordial Thunder, Universally Transforming! The Revered Heavenly Sovereign of the Nine Heavens, Responding to the Primordial Thunder, Universally Transforming!
