# Li Dongming of Xi’an Supports a Recluse in Response to Spiritual Influence

Li Dongming was a native of Xi’an. He made his living by writing, and delighted in the doctrines of Taoism. Whenever he beheld the Three Treasures, reverence arose in his heart. The Zhongnan Mountains were full of recluses; at leisure, Li Dongming would also go to attend the lectures on Taoist knowledge held by the Eight Immortals Palace and the recluses of Zhongnan. One object was to increase his knowledge of Taoism; another was to make the acquaintance of several Taoist priests.

In the spring of the gengyin year, Li Dongming was amusing himself at a tavern in Chang’an not far from the Eight Immortals Palace, when he saw several Taoist priests drinking tea. He went over to greet them; after a little acquaintance, they began to talk idly. Among the Taoists was one called Lu Xuanqi, originally a man of Qiannan. At the age of twenty he entered upon cultivation in Zhongnan Mountain, and now he had been there for five or six years. His countenance was dark as lacquer, and his eyes bright; he was about one metre and sixty centimetres tall, and smoked a large tobacco pipe. His discourse was distinguished; Li Dongming at once took a liking for him, and wished to invite the Taoist priests to a meal.

In the course of conversation, it was learnt how arduous was Lu Xuanqi’s cultivation in Zhongnan Mountain; though he occasionally obtained some rice and flour at the Eight Immortals Palace, he had no other income. Li Dongming thereupon was moved to support this Taoist priest. He said, ‘Taoist Lu, there is no need to say more. If hereafter you have no money, come to me; a few hundred yuan a month is but a small sum.’ With Li Dongming’s support, Lu Xuanqi cultivated with peace of mind in Zhongnan Mountain; in the bingxu year he passed through the Three Passes and turned the River Chariot. He received the direction of an immortal to go to Wuyi Mountain in Fujian to seek a master of affinity.

And a few days after Taoist Lu’s departure to Wuyi Mountain, Li Dongming dreamed that a youth in vermilion robes came to tell him, ‘Because of your merit in supporting a recluse, the Perfected Man has already ordered an increase in your salary.’ Not long after, a friend called Li Dongming by telephone, inviting him to join in a business venture; now he has laid aside his pen for commerce, and his fortune amounts to a million!
