# The Spirit-Demons Harm Men: The Great Manifestation of the Divine Power of the Spirit Officer of Wudang Mountain

Liu Jianjun was a man of Ezhou in Hubei. His household was beset and harmed by spirit-demons; they sought many monks and Daoist priests, but none availed. One day, this spirit-demon, having drunk much, said, "Except for Li Yongnian of Wudang Mountain, I fear none." Liu Jianjun's family immediately went in search of this Daoist. But this Daoist Li was unable to draw talismans; after earnest entreaty, the Daoist said, "I will apply cinnabar upon the divine whip of the Spirit Officer, then make an impression on paper; take it home and try it." The man carried the yellow paper home, and upon arrival heard a dreadful scream, then all was silent; afterwards, a fox's carcass was found in the house.

The Iron-Crowned Daoist said: The True Martial Patriarch of Wudang Mountain is the Dark Heavenly Emperor of the North, the Exorcising Venerable of Heaven. He was commanded by the Primordial Beginning to sweep away the demon-spirits. The Spirit Officer Wang, mighty and illustrious, was appointed by the Jade Emperor to subdue the demons and monsters. He protects the mountain gates, keeping them pure; all evil spirits and heterodox ways are thereby subdued and terrified. Therefore, in the erection of temples and shrines, many set up the Hall of the Spirit Officer at the mountain gate to repel evil spirits. Those who study the Way should all reverently worship and duly offer sacrifices; surely they will receive protection and aid. External evil will not harm them, and the immortal Way may be hoped for. Should men be troubled by evil spirits, they should also take refuge in Spirit Officer Wang, and will all receive his saving protection.
