# The Illustrious Taoist Master Huang Shi of Taiwan Prays for the Longevity of Chiang Ching-kuo

The contemporary Taoist master Huang Shi of Taiwan, whose grandfather was the revolutionary martyr Huang Xing, holds very high repute in the Taoist circles and political sphere of Taiwan. In the year 2011, he predicted with great accuracy the re-election of Ma Ying-jeou, his divinations being exceedingly effective. Moreover, he is skilled in other Taoist arts and numerological calculations.

It is said that in former days, when Chiang Ching-kuo was gravely ill, in the advanced stage of cancer, he summoned Master Huang Shi to his sickbed, saying, “I cannot die now; I desire yet to live for several more years, to build up Taiwan well.” Huang Shi inquired, “How many years more does the President desire to live?” Chiang Ching-kuo replied, “Ten years will suffice.” Master Huang said, “It is possible; I will pray for you and see what can be done.”

Therefore, he summoned his disciples, who fasted and bathed, and established an altar for the stars, to supplicate for the extension of the life of Mr. Chiang Ching-kuo. The fasting period lasted forty-nine days; incense and clouds of smoke entwined around the altar, the lamps shone brightly. Banners and canopies adorned and solemnly set the altar. Incense, candles, and fruits were offered to the exalted spirits. The chants and sounds of the ritual penetrated the clouds, the petitions and memorials presented to the heavenly courts. Truly, as it was written, “The officers of merit carry away the records, the celestial officials descend to bestow blessings.”

When the fasting period was complete, Master Huang Shi told Mr. Chiang Ching-kuo, “I have already entreated the heavenly court to grant you ten years of yang life.” Indeed, soon after, the condition of Mr. Chiang Ching-kuo improved, and his health was gradually restored. Mr. Chiang Ching-kuo employed these ten years vigorously to build up Taiwan. The last ten years of his life were the finest period of Taiwan’s economic development.
