# The Wretched Plight of a Devout Elder

This old man now lies with his whole body putrefied; yet after treatment and various examinations, no cause of the malady could be found. Because of the corruption of his flesh, he cannot wear any clothing, for if touched, the pain is intolerable. Moreover, beneath his body many layers of bedding must be spread, so that the hardness of the bed-board may not bring him pain. The present state of the old man is what we commonly call "life worse than death." His family has therefore begun a journey to seek medical aid on all sides; this is as is said in the Jade Pivot Scripture concerning the inefficacy of medicines.

Folk remedies have been employed; some practitioners of Chinese medicine have been consulted. Some great adepts have been sought; some monks and Daoist priests have all been tried. Still the cause of the sickness and the means to cure it were not found. At last, a Daoist priest discovered that this was caused by a malignant spirit holding the order of debt-collection from the Eastern Peak, and because of a grievance, the consequences were severe. Even the Nether Officials extended the old man’s life by two years and a half, but did not grant him blessings. Thus it was fated that in the declining years of his life he must endure suffering and torment. Although it seems that the old man still dwells in the world of the living, his soul is already under punishment in the nether world with knives and swords, whence comes the putrefaction of his whole body.

Generally speaking, such cases are rare. Yet it also shows that the nether world keeps pace with the times. Thus he suffers in the world of the living, and drags his family into his misery; such a living is far more terrible than death, being as though a living man had entered the prison of the dead.

The life of man is governed by the Dipper Mansion, which prescribes birth and death; then by the Five Dippers are allotted the measure of blessings, fortunes, and length of days. At last, the record of thy deeds is delivered to the Nether Officials, forming the Book of Life and Death. The affairs of life and death in the world above are ruled by the Nether Officials, while the matters of blessings and calamities belong to the Heavenly Officials. Hence it is manifest that to have life but no blessing is a thing exceedingly grievous. One must do many good deeds, and at the least cherish ever a good thought.
