# The Story of Du Jianzhou's Holding of the Scripture "The Nine Netherworlds' Extraction of Guilt Sutra" and its Fulfillment

Du Wu, a man of Jingzhao, held an important office in Chengdu. He was a just man, upright and without partiality, and was highly esteemed and reverenced by all. Having fallen ill with a slight sickness, he took leave for several days. His family secretly sought a sorcerer to inquire about his illness. The sorcerer said: "There is a youth covered all over with blood, who says he is the younger brother of Du Wu. He met with an untimely death, having died a stranger in a foreign land, and there is none to offer sacrifice to him. He harbours resentment in his heart; therefore Du Wu's official advancement is obstructed and delayed."

The family informed Du Wu of this matter. Du Wu knew in his heart that the words were not false, and he said: "My younger brother has been abroad for many years; I know not whether he lives or dies. I have never thought to set up a tablet to offer him sacrifice, fearing that he yet remains in the Yang world. Now that I learn his form, age, birth order, and childhood name are all true!" Du Wu was deeply grieved on this account. After some time, he again caused the sorcerer to inquire what the departed spirit required.

The answer was: "Long has it been, and the worldly rites cannot suffice. It is necessary to invite a Daoist, who shall recite the 'Golden Register of Wonderful Precepts: The Nine Netherworlds' Extraction of Guilt Sutra' nine times, to draw talismans and burn them. This will have effect. Thereafter the departed spirit will no longer return. When I have gone, the lawsuits will be ended, and my elder brother will immediately advance in rank, serving two terms as prefect."

Thereupon the Du family invited the Daoist Gu Songhua, requesting him to recite this sutra, to set up a Daoist altar, to recite one hundred and twenty scrolls of the scripture, and to set up an altar petition, burning clothes and money for the departed spirit. When the altar was completed, the sorcerer said that the departed spirit had received it, and expressed thanks before departing. More than a month later, Du Wu was promoted to be the prefect of the provincial city, and soon after appointed prefect of Jianzhou. Upon the expiration of his term, he was made the ancient master of Jianzhou.

Hence he wrote more than a hundred copies of the "Nine Netherworlds Sutra," transmitting them among those who believe in the Great Way, and exhorted them to hold and venerate this sutra!
