# Eighty Questions

### First Question: Concerning the Law  
An inquirer came and asked, 'What is the Law?' The Master of Longevity answered, 'To understand the Way and reach the true void, this is called the Law. To understand the release and reach non-birth, this is called the Precept. Those who teach the Law cannot exhaust all its myriad faults, nor comprehend all its myriad principles. Those who teach the Precept cannot exhaust all its myriad virtues, nor comprehend all its myriad wisdoms. When the Way and Law are understood, one attains to naturalness, sincerity, and non-action. When release and precept are understood, one completes the longevity of myself, men, and all living beings. The Scripture says: "The Way and Law follow nature." The Way and Law are not emptiness, yet are emptiness.'

### Second Question: Concerning Emptiness  
Again he asked, 'What is Emptiness?' The answer was, 'The Way abides not in emptiness. The fool holds to his stubborn emptiness; the wise hold to true emptiness. The world's thought regards colour as emptiness; the Way forgets the world's emptiness. Men love all things as emptiness; those who think of sin are not emptiness. The illumined perceive the Way as emptiness; the accomplished understand their nature as emptiness. The impure sink into emptiness at death; the pure ascend into emptiness at birth. The Scripture says: "To be born and to die; the number of the living is thirteen, the number of the dead is thirteen." To comprehend emptiness is to know.'

### Third Question: Concerning Knowledge  
Again he asked, 'What is Knowledge?' The answer was, 'Knowledge is to know the kindness of men, and in the heart to expect their return; to know the Way of Heaven is to diminish the superfluous and benefit the deficient; to know the Way of men is to lessen the want and serve the rich. To know those who have the Way is to follow Heaven; to know those who have not the Way is to follow men. To follow Heaven is the birth of man; to follow men is the death of man. To follow Heaven preserves the pure and good; to follow men indulges the impure and evil. The Scripture says: "Observe the Way of Heaven; hold to the conduct of Heaven; this is all." To know the radiance of wisdom is to differ from what common men see.'

### Fourth Question: Concerning Seeing  
Again he asked, 'What is Seeing?' The answer was, 'Seeing is not what the eyes of the flesh behold. Seeing is to behold the void and original source; to behold the light of wisdom; to behold the enduring form; to behold the indistinct; to behold the precious pearl; to behold the rosy clouds; to behold the profound subtlety; to behold the bright impetus; to behold the clear soul; to behold the tranquil spirit. The Scripture says: "The Way as a thing is only vague and dim." To see its formless appearance is to respond outwardly to its ever-good nature.'

### Fourth Question: Concerning Goodness  
Again he asked, 'What is Goodness?' The answer was, 'Goodness is to respond to things according to their shapes — square, round, bent, straight — and to comply with men. If it does not produce myriad evils, this is called true goodness. If it does not cling to myriad things, this is called pure goodness. To understand principle and not read myriad scriptures, this is called thorough goodness. To comprehend the subtle and not exhaust myriad transformations, this is called bright goodness. To harm not myriad forms, this is called kind goodness. To tire not of myriad impurities, this is called responsive goodness. To blame not myriad persons, this is called virtuous goodness. To seek not myriad possessions, this is called Dao goodness. To rise not from myriad selfishnesses, this is called public goodness. To forget not myriad wisdoms, this is called constant goodness. The Scripture says: "Goodness, I regard it as good; not-goodness, I also regard it as good — this is virtuous goodness. The utmost goodness is not evil."'

### Sixth Question: Concerning Evil  
Again he asked, 'What is Evil?' The answer was, 'Evil is the unworthy in man. If man does not follow Heaven, then Heaven does not favour man. If man scatters, then Heaven sends famine and scarcity. If man does not cultivate his good fortune, then Heaven does not grant abundant harvests. If the heart of man indulges in malice, then Heaven’s will sends wind and hail. If man, until death, does not guard against evil and killing, then in the next life he will surely be born among the Asuras. Man creates evil, and Heaven returns evil. If man is not harmed by evil things, then things are not harmed by man. The Scripture says: "Poisonous insects do not sting, fierce beasts do not seize, searching crows do not catch." If one does not hate true communication, then he is wise.'

### Seventh Question: Concerning the Worthy  
Again he asked, 'What is the Worthy?' The answer was, 'The Worthy is the greatly accomplished person. The greatly wise seems not to be so accomplished; the greatly sagacious seems not to know; the greatly intelligent seems not bright; the greatly eloquent seems not to speak. In accordance with his wisdom, he truly has myriad communications; in accordance with his sagacity, he truly has myriad understandings; in accordance with his intelligence, he truly has myriad clarities; in accordance with his eloquence, he truly has myriad discourses. The wisdom that communicates is worldly communication; the sagacity that communicates is Dao communication; the intelligence that communicates is principle’s clarity; the eloquence that communicates is speech’s purity. The Scripture says: "Do not esteem the worthy, so that the people do not contend." The Worthy who hides himself in the world is like a stone concealing its jade. The Worthy of the Way who hides himself is the true formless. The Worthy is not the fool.'

### Eighth Question: Concerning the Foolish  
Again he asked, 'What is the Foolish?' The answer was, 'The Foolish is the ancient accomplished who keeps far from the world’s dream and illusion, outwardly seeming foolish. The Confucian Yan Hui was poor and simple, with but one basket and one gourd. The Bhikkhu Sakyamuni begged for food, eating one meal from seven households. The Daoist is pure Yang and non-action, dwelling like the quail under the cartwheel. Returning to simplicity, the lofty goes to the low; the having goes to the having-not. The clear seems dark; the ancient dull seems slow. The Scripture says: "I alone appear to be neglected; I am the fool’s heart." Outwardly foolish, inwardly embracing the Way—this is true life.'

### Ninth Question: Concerning Life  
Again he asked, 'What is Life?' The answer was, 'Life is to embrace the Way, and thus truly live; to preserve the body, and thus fortune lives; to nourish the vital breath, and thus the spirit lives; to penetrate the subtle, and thus the marvel lives; to be free from delusion, and thus wisdom lives; to respond to things, and thus virtue lives; to be constantly good, and thus life is saved; at summer solstice, the tower lives; at winter solstice, Yang lives; through communication, all things live. True life is leisure; fortune life is brightness; spirit life is spirit; marvel life is purity; wisdom life is penetration; virtue life is straightforwardness; life saved is compassion; Yin life is ascent; Yang life is descent; things live by completion. The Scripture says: "The Way produced One; One produced Two; Two produced Three; Three produced the myriad things. Heaven and Earth produced the myriad things, completing them by harmonious breath; this is life; by metal breath, this is death."'

### Tenth Question: Concerning Death  
Again he asked, 'What is Death?' The answer was, 'Death is the form of things. All things, at their deep autumn, their forms die, but their roots do not perish. All forms, at their hundred years, the body dies, but their nature does not perish. The unfeeling things may deepen their roots; the feeling forms may nourish their nature. If the roots lack water, the shoots die; if the nature lacks its destiny, the body dies. The root is nature; nature is root. The spirit is nature; nature is spirit. When the number of the five elements is exhausted, their forms decline and die. Beyond Yin and Yang, their spirits have no death. The Scripture says: "Deep roots and firm foundations are the way of long life and lasting vision." Death without its death is true permanence and value.'

### Eleventh Question: Concerning Nobility  
Again he asked, 'What is Nobility?' The answer was, 'Nobility is to esteem virtue. Heaven bestows grace without making it known below; this is esteemed virtue. Heaven bestows grace without choosing whom to love; this is esteemed virtue. Heaven bestows grace in creation without mastery; this is esteemed virtue. Heaven bestows grace in helping men without expectation of return; this is esteemed virtue. Men should accord with Heaven’s intent, knowing benefit and loss themselves. Men should accord with Heaven’s intent, with a heart impartial as private. Men should accord with Heaven’s intent, giving wealth as if casting away mud. Men should accord with Heaven’s intent, giving food without recalling to whom. The Scripture says: "All things do not fail to respect the Way and esteem virtue." The virtue of the noble is to benefit the lowly.'

### Twelfth Question: Concerning Baseness  
Again he asked, 'What is Baseness?' The answer was, 'Baseness is to slight the exterior. To truly esteem virtue is to hold the exterior low. Virtue is like beautiful jade; the body is like a dull stone. Virtue above communicates with Heaven; the body below is humble like the sea. If the speech is humble, then the body is exalted. If the interior despises its truth, then the exterior esteems its falsehood. To esteem virtue is the world’s weight; to despise the body is peaceful survival. To see treasure is to become a great vessel; when simplicity scatters, truth’s form appears. To communicate Heaven is to illuminate subtlety; to communicate the sea is to which all goodness returns. When speech is humble, there is reverence and trust; when the body is exalted, things and self increase. To despise the true, then soul and spirit scatter; to esteem the false, then savor its truth. The Scripture says: "Therefore the noble must take baseness as the root; the high must take the low as foundation. To be among the low is to raise the high."'

### Thirteenth Question: Concerning the High  
Again he asked, 'What is the High?' The answer was, 'Heaven’s Way suppresses the high. Man’s Way exalts the high. The greatly accomplished hides his height. The honored parades his height. Heaven’s Way suppressing the high benefits the lowly. Man’s Way exalting the high harms the lowly. The greatly accomplished hiding height transforms his worthiness. The honored parading height bewitches the foolish. The Scripture says: "The high are suppressed, the low are exalted; what Heaven esteems as high is covered by the low."'

### Fourteenth Question: Concerning the Low  
Again he asked, 'What is the Low?' The answer was, 'The low, like the sea beneath, is clear, open, submissive; the heart beneath is clear, good, and submissive. Clear and submissive is deep and broad; good and submissive is virtue vast. Like a house where the beams and pillars rest below, the rafters and purlins return thither. Like a host awaiting guests, the master seats himself below, so the guests come. Rafters and purlins returning lead to accomplishment; guests returning lead to virtue. The Scripture says: "That which makes rivers and seas masters of a hundred valleys is their willingness to be low." To dwell low and clear and submissive is supreme happiness.'

### Fifteenth Question: Concerning Joy  
Again he asked, 'What is Joy?' The answer was, 'Joy is to delight in the Way, then to dwell clear and low is joy; joy in the vulgar is to cling to song and wine for joy. Joy in clear and low comes from having no delight and no worry. Joy in song and wine has both gladness and sorrow. Joy in the Way of non-action has no effort and no proof; joy in the Way of action has both effort and failure. Joy in true nature has no form and no end; joy in the false body has birth and death. The Scripture says: "Therefore the world’s joy is pushed and never weary. Joy in the Way has no contention. Losing the joy of the Way brings sorrow born of suffering."'

### Sixteenth Question: Concerning Suffering  
Again he asked, 'What is Suffering?' The answer was, 'Suffering is suffering of body and mind. The world’s lost are those who suffer their own greed for life and enter the road to death; those who suffer the schemes of the mind have their nature sunk into the ground of sin. The Dao’s enlightened suffer their own refining of the form, as when breaking stones to take jade; they suffer the forgetting of schemes, and their nature ascends to the ninth heaven. The worthy find joy in suffering; the foolish find suffering in joy. The worthy endure suffering to sweetness; the foolish reach joy to woe. The Scripture says: "Grace springs from harm; harm springs from grace." Joy in the Way and suffering exhausted is to communicate its purity.'

### Seventeenth Question: Concerning Purity  
Again he asked, 'What is Purity?' The answer was, 'Purity is when Heaven is pure it manifests myriad images; when the heart is pure it manifests enduring spirit; when the deep is pure it reveals its two eights. To understand the heavenly images is to bring down breath in harmony and impetus; to understand the enduring spirit is to be one with the Way; to understand the deep purity is to have the spiritual spring without leak. To attain the harmony and impetus is to bind breath and spirit; to attain the common body is that true form is imperishable; to attain no leak is that the bright moon shines full. The Scripture says: "The deep is like the ancestor of myriad things." To probe and understand its purity is to be free from impurity.'

### Eighteenth Question: Concerning Impurity  
Again he asked, 'What is Impurity?' The answer was, 'Impurity is the world’s lost. To indulge in desire is evil impurity; to indulge in the body is licentious impurity; to indulge in evil is to darken nature; to indulge in licentiousness is to lose life. The Dao’s enlightened have Heaven pure but mixed with earth’s impurity; body pure but mixed with the world’s impurity. Pure mixed with impurity is Yin changing to Yang; pure mixed with the world is outwardly as foolish. The Scripture says: "Who can make the impure pure, and cleanse it gradually?" When impurity ends, brightness appears.'

### Nineteenth Question: Concerning Manifestation  
Again he asked, 'What is Manifestation?' The answer was, 'Manifestation is Heaven’s image, not manifesting its brightness itself, but the eyes of all under Heaven see its brightness. The Dao’s principle is not manifesting itself, but the myriad good under Heaven understand its attainment. When myriad eyes see the brightness, there is reverence; when myriad good know its attainment, there is faith. The world reveres Heaven and Earth, and thus fortune is born. The Dao trusts non-action, and thus true life is born. The Scripture says: "Not self-manifesting, therefore bright; not self-proclaiming, therefore manifest." When inner light manifests, the outer form hides.'

### Twentieth Question: Concerning Concealment  
Again he asked, 'What is Concealment?' The answer was, 'Concealment is inward compassion saving life, outward fearing men know; inward truly bright and attaining, outward seeming a fool; inward no obstruction, outward form like mixed dust; inward light responsive to things, outward with nothing to do; inward nature unfolding virtue, outward distant from men’s admiration; inward spirit embracing the Way, outward without attachment or confusion. At utmost brightness all thought is extinguished, body dwelling in the dusty world. The Scripture says: "The Way conceals without name; this is its greatness."'

### Twenty-first Question: Concerning Greatness  
Again he asked, 'What is Greatness?' The answer was, 'Greatness is the Way. Yin and Yang cannot contain it; this is the Way’s greatness. Greatness is nature. Ten thousand evils but the straight can contain it; this is nature’s greatness. The Way’s greatness is the mother of all things. Nature’s greatness is the teacher of all evils. To communicate with the mother is that all things receive their creation. To communicate with the teacher is that all evils return to their right path. Creation is that all form their shapes. Right and attained is that all communicate their Way. The Scripture says: "The Way that can be spoken of is not the constant Way." Greatness embraces the small.'

### Twenty-second Question: Concerning Smallness  
Again he asked, 'What is Smallness?' The answer was, 'Smallness is to communicate the subtle. When the Way communicates the small, it does not choose whom to love or favour. When nature communicates the small, it does not choose whom to love or teach. Not choosing whom to love or favour means all small things receive the Way’s breath. Not choosing whom to love or teach means all small things receive Heaven’s light. The unfeeling small things, receiving the Way’s breath, form. The feeling small things, receiving Heaven’s light, have nature. The Scripture says: "To govern a great country is like cooking a small fish." Not choosing whom to love or favour, not rejecting the weak. The subtlety of the small is not empty.'

### Twenty-third Question: Concerning Emptiness  
Again he asked, 'What is Emptiness?' The answer was, 'Emptiness is the body of the Way. Yin and Yang illuminate its emptiness, and myriad things are born. The utmost nature illuminates its emptiness, and the indistinct is born. Myriad things come into being to aid the world. The indistinct comes into being to depart the world. Things aiding men is the world’s joy. The Way communicating its truth is the joy of nature. Worldly joy is Yin and Yang in their order. Nature’s joy is ultimate emptiness without end. The Scripture says: "Achieve utmost emptiness, keep still and sincere, myriad things arise together." Emptiness is the reality of the Way.'

### Twenty-fourth Question: Concerning Solidity  
Again he asked, 'What is Solidity?' The answer was, 'Solidity is the Way. The Way was born before Heaven and Earth, ever constant and immortal; this is called Solidity. Solidity is nature. Nature was born outside myriad things, ever constant and immortal; this is called Solidity. The Way, clear in its Solidity, masters Yin and Yang and brings forth myriad things. Nature, clear in its Solidity, is the great pivot and communicates myriad transformations. When myriad things are born, it manifests the truth of the Way. When myriad transformations are born, it manifests the truth of nature. The Way is empty and breath solid; nature is empty and destiny solid. The Scripture says: "Empty the heart, solidify the return." Clear in its Solidity, the Way and nature are truly at leisure.'

### Twenty-fifth Question: Concerning Leisure  
Again he asked, 'What is Leisure?' The answer was, 'Leisure is the Way. When the utmost Way is leisure, Yin and Yang move leisurely and bring forth things. When the utmost nature is leisure, lead and mercury are leisurely cooked, refining the form. Yin and Yang change to complete things. Lead and mercury combine to complete nature. To complete things is man’s wealth. To complete nature is spirit’s efficacy. When man is wealthy, he desires its splendour; when spirit is efficacious, it embraces the Way. Desire for splendour brings rise and fall. Embracing the Way has no form and no end. The Scripture says: "Look and you cannot see it; listen and you cannot hear it." Nature delights in true leisure, responding to its busyness.'

### Twenty-sixth Question: Concerning Busyness  
Again he asked, 'What is Busyness?' The answer was, 'Busyness is when the Way is leisure, yet the two breaths are ever busy; when nature is leisure, yet the four dependences are ever busy. The two breaths busy are the four seasons divided into upper and lower. The four dependences busy are day and night, greedy and competing in coming and going. The two breaths busy cause spring to turn warm, summer hot, autumn cool, winter cold. The four dependences busy are greed for wealth, clinging to beauty, being lost in wine, competing in breath. The two breaths busy create myriad things, Yin and Yang following Heaven and Earth’s virtue. The four dependences busy create myriad industries, living beings departing from Heaven and Earth’s virtue. The Scripture says: "Sounds harmonize, front follows behind." The busy form enlightened is truly without departing.'

### Twenty-seventh Question: Concerning Departure  
Again he asked, 'What is Departure?' The answer was, 'Departure is that the Way is ever constant and without end; the Way’s image has no place to depart. Departure is that things form and have an end; breath has something to depart. The Way is to communicate Yin and Yang. Breath is to communicate myriad things. When numbers are exhausted, Yin and Yang disperse. When form ends, myriad things decay. Yin and Yang disperse, but the Way remains constant. Myriad things decay, but nature remains constant. The Scripture says: "From ancient times to now, its name does not depart." Things end and breath departs; Yang harmonizes and breath returns.'

### Twenty-eighth Question: Concerning Coming  
Again he asked, 'What is Coming?' The answer was, 'Coming is not its form but movement. Heaven and Earth wait their time and communicate, so the two breaths come. Myriad forms wait their time and receive breath, so Yin and Yang come. The Way is the place of Heaven and Earth; form is the place of Yin and Yang. Heaven and Earth abide in their Way, abiding long. Yin and Yang abide in their things, abiding temporarily. Abiding long, the four seasons change and communicate. Abiding temporarily, the three talents gather. Change and communication complete creation. Gathering and meeting complete true form. Dryness is things dying; softness is form living. The Scripture says: "Man is born soft and weak; his death is hard and strong." Softness coming is to communicate Heaven’s clear and even.'

### Twenty-ninth Question: Concerning Evenness  
Again he asked, 'What is Evenness?' The answer was, 'Evenness is the Way. The Way nurtures myriad things, not choosing whom to love or favour, spreading breath evenly. Evenness is truth. Truth communicates myriad transformations, wealth does not choose whom to love or wonder, spreading virtue evenly. When breath is even, things are born together. When virtue is even, men are good alike. When things are born together, all complete their creation. When men are alike in goodness, all complete their Way and virtue. The Scripture says: "Heaven and Earth unite, sending down sweet dew; men do not command it, yet it is naturally perfect." To understand its constancy.'

### Thirtieth Question: Concerning Constancy  
Again he asked, 'What is Constancy?' The answer was, 'Constancy is the Way. Constantly following the Way is to save human spirit. Constantly following breath is to save things’ forms. Men constantly following the Way are like fish in water. Things constantly following breath are like lamps with added oil. Fish leaving water die. Lamps running out of oil go out. Constantly following the Way is life. Constantly following breath is birth. Men are spirit. Things are form. When form and spirit are both perfect, they unite truly with the Way. The Scripture says: "Constant good saves men, therefore none are forsaken." To delight in the Way’s constancy is true joy.'

### Thirty-first Question: Concerning Joy  
Again he asked, 'What is Joy?' The answer was, 'Joy is delight in the Way. Pure and without impurity, this is delight in the Way. Joyful and without worry, this is delight in the Way. Joy is delight in virtue. To urge evil to follow good is delight in virtue. To see the standard and repay kindness is delight in virtue. Joy is to lose delight. To shun good and delight in evil is to lose delight. To forget kindness and repay unkindness is to lose delight. To delight in the Way is to perfect its work. To delight in virtue is to perfect its practice. To delight in loss is to lose and fall. The Scripture says: "The Way is like the Way; virtue is like virtue; loss is loss. Joy and delight forget worry."'

### Thirty-second Question: Concerning Worry  
Again he asked, 'What is Worry?' The answer was, 'Those who have worry do not understand the Right Principle of the Way. Many affairs bring much worry. Those who have no worry truly understand the Way’s true wisdom. No affairs bring no worry. Much affair and worry cause spirit to be clouded and breath impure. No affair and no worry cause spirit to be clear and breath fresh. Impure breath brings lustful and evil thoughts, losing soul and spirit. Clear breath brings no thought and clear goodness, gathering lead and mercury. Soul and spirit scattering cause nature to sink; lead and mercury combining cause nature to rise. The Scripture says: "To abandon learning is worry’s end." To be without worry, think of the Way, and this is true attainment.'

### Thirty-third Question: Concerning Attainment  
Again he asked, 'What is Attainment?' The answer was, 'Attainment is true attainment when one gains the nameless pure favour; false attainment when one gains the named impure disgrace. To gain pure favour is to have no greed or contention. To gain impure disgrace is to have greed and contention. Without greed and contention, one truly attains the good Way. With greed and contention, one falsely loses himself in evil customs. Truly perfect in all conduct is high favour. Falsely making myriad deeds is low disgrace. To awaken is no birth; to be lost is having fallen. The Scripture says: "Favour and disgrace are like a shock. Attaining false name is losing the true Way."'

### Thirty-fourth Question: Concerning Loss  
Again he asked, 'What is Loss?' The answer was, 'Loss is to lose the Way of non-action. Loss is to be attached to the Way of action. Loss is to lose the virtue of non-action. Loss is to be attached to the virtue of action. To attain the Way of non-action is truly endless. To be attached to the Way of action is falsely finite. To attain the virtue of non-action is to keep nature always even. To be attached to the virtue of action is to have a heart with hatred. The Way of non-action is endless, truly unbroken. The Way of action is finite, falsely broken. The virtue of non-action is truly even, communicating with Heaven. The virtue of action is falsely hateful; wealth then falls. The Scripture says: "Therefore losing the Way, then virtue; losing virtue, then benevolence. To attain non-action is to have no loss, communicating its pure fortune."'

### Thirty-fifth Question: Concerning Fortune  
Again he asked, 'What is Fortune?' The answer was, 'Fortune is true fortune, the Way, the human destiny; worldly fortune is dust, the treasure of things. The Way of non-action’s fortune is like the full bright moon always waxing. The worldly fortune of action is like the waning moon gradually declining. The full bright moon is man’s destiny; the waning moon is the world’s treasure. Destiny is the endless Way’s fortune; treasure is the finite world’s emptiness. To awaken to the Way is that fortune arises. To be lost in the world is that karma sinks. The Scripture says: "Fortune hides disaster; who knows its end?" To attain the Way’s fortune is to be without disaster.'

### Thirty-sixth Question: Concerning Disaster  
Again he asked, 'What is Disaster?' The answer was, 'Disaster is man’s desire, pre-created in error. If man’s karma has one part, Heaven sends ten parts of disaster. If man’s goodness has one part, Heaven grants ten parts of fortune. The Scripture says: "Cut off one source of profit, use ten times the teaching." If man does not arise from myriad evils, then he excels in myriad good. If man does not attach to myriad things, then he excels in myriad kindness. The Scripture says: "Three returns in day and night, use ten thousand times the teaching." To attain non-action, pure fortune has ten thousand times. To be lost in action, false fortune hides disaster. The Scripture says: "Disaster is what fortune leans upon. The true does not abandon the outside."'

### Thirty-seventh Question: Concerning Abandonment  
Again he asked, 'What is Abandonment?' The answer was, 'Abandonment is the world’s forsaking wealth, hoping for fortune. Abandonment is not to abandon the having but to take the having-not. To abandon wealth and take fortune is not to understand true fortune. To abandon the having and cling to the having-not is not to understand true having-not. True fortune is all compassion. True having-not is all attainment. Compassion saves things; attainment reveals principle. Compassion broad is virtue narrow; principle revealed is Way bright. The Scripture says: "Now abandon compassion and courage, abandon frugality and breadth. Advance in the Way is not to take."'

### Thirty-eighth Question: Concerning Taking  
Again he asked, 'What is Taking?' The answer was, 'Taking is delusion and not right. The utmost truth is the Way; to communicate purity is virtue. To exhaust things and comprehend is to return to the Way. To dwell below and be deep is to return to virtue. Truth does not cling to having, so things return to it. The sea does not dwell above, so purity returns to it. Things return to it, completing creation. Purity returns to it, completing utmost virtue. If a man awakens to worldly falsity, he attains emptiness and has功. If a man awakens to exhaustiveness, he communicates humility and has practice. The Scripture says: "To dwell in reality and not in splendour, thus to leave that and take this." True having-not takes nothing and is bright within.'

### Thirty-ninth Question: Concerning the Middle  
Again he asked, 'What is the Middle?' The answer was, 'The Middle is Heaven’s evenness. Heaven bestows grace and produces myriad things without choosing; this is called bright in the middle. Man’s evenness is true spreading virtue and communicating myriad transformations, neither hating nor loving; this is called bright in the middle. Heaven being even, myriad things come forth; thus Heaven has功. Man being even, myriad transformations truly communicate; thus man has practice. If Heaven loves and favours, there is no great功. If man loves and gives kindness, there is no great practice. The Scripture says: "The Way is level as a plumb line." To understand its level Way is to have pure fortune without boundary.'

### Fortieth Question: Concerning Boundaries  
Again he asked, 'What are Boundaries?' The answer was, 'Boundaries are not understanding principle. To see the having and not understand the having-not, to see the having-not and not understand the having, this is called partial vision. Not clinging to partial vision is to understand principle. To see the having and understand the having-not, to see the having-not and understand the having. To understand the having is to embrace the Way and conceal oneself in the dark heaven. To understand the having-not is to embrace the Way and conceal its capital city. The Scripture says: "Do without acting, do without doing. Not standing on either side, this is true non-attachment."'

### Forty-first Question: Concerning Attachment  
Again he asked, 'What is Attachment?' The answer was, 'Attachment and non-attachment are to be as dust, the body mingling with the existence of myriad things. Truly not attached to myriad things’ heart is called great accomplishment. To be unattached is to transcend dust and be distant from myriad things’ existence. Truly attached to myriad things’ mind is called not yet accomplished. Attachment and non-attachment are as the body like lotus root. Non-attachment and attachment are as the body like a lotus flower. The body is in dust, nature not in dust — this is to be finished truly. The body is distant from dust, the heart in dust — this is not finished. The Scripture says: "Worn out then renewed." Truly finished, the body responds to things, neither attached nor apart.'

### Forty-second Question: Concerning Separation  
Again he asked, 'What is Separation?' The answer was, 'Separation is the body apart from desire, the heart forgetting its dust, thus quietly guarding its resolve. Separation is the body hidden in the famous mountain, truly responding to qin and books, quietly delighting in communication and resolve. To guard resolve is simplicity. To delight in communication and resolve is brilliance and attainment. The body is simple and the heart brilliant and attained; this is false form and spirit both perfect. Form simple and scattered and truth brilliant and attained is called true form and spirit both perfect. The Scripture says: "Not to see what can be desired, making the heart not disturbed." Purely detached from the shell of things is to communicate with men.'

### Forty-third Question: Concerning Man  
Again he asked, 'What is Man?' The answer was, 'Man, when born indulging in evil, sinks into the evil path and cycles; this is called Heaven governing man. Man, when born not cultivating his fortune, sinks into poverty and cycles; this is called Heaven governing man. Man, when having goodness, is born in the Central Kingdom cultivating the Way. Man, when having great joy, is born in the Middle Kingdom accumulating virtue. If man has evil, then Heaven gives evil retribution. If man has goodness, then Heaven gives good retribution. The Scripture says: "To govern men is to serve Heaven; none more frugal." Men not understanding Heaven’s intent cling to self.'

### Forty-fourth Question: Concerning the Self  
Again he asked, 'What is the Self?' The answer was, 'The Self, the true self, is man’s nature. My Way is the formless Way; my goodness is the non-action goodness; men all call this unworthy. The false self is man’s evil. The false Way is the Way of nourishing the body; the false goodness is the goodness of action; men all call this seeming worthy. The true self is the formless Way and so true; the non-action goodness is constant. The false self is the Way of nourishing the body and so false; the goodness of action is hateful. The Scripture says: "All under Heaven call my Way seeming unworthy; as if for long. To know the true self is not to dispute."'

### Forty-fifth Question: Concerning Disputation  
Again he asked, 'What is Disputation?' The answer was, 'Disputation in the world is in myriad evils; Heaven’s silence is in myriad goodness. The world’s dispute is in right and wrong; the Way’s dispute is in pure goodness. The world’s mouth has dispute but the heart has no penetration; the Way has no speech but truly communicates. No penetration is broad, but ignorant of subtlety. Communication is without learning but knows subtlety. Both these are called confusion and enlightenment. The Scripture says: "The good do not dispute, the disputing are not good." To understand Heaven’s intent is outwardly as slow.'

### Forty-sixth Question: Concerning Slowness  
Again he asked, 'What is Slowness?' The answer was, 'Slowness seems like slowness, seeming not able to speak. To understand the Way and return to simplicity, the slow is like the eloquent. To embrace the Way and return to simplicity, the eloquent is like the slow. To scatter simplicity wastes breath and the body suffers restraint. To return to simplicity preserves breath and the body is free from restraint. Seeing the foolish, eloquence is like slowness; seeing the worthy, slowness is like eloquence. The Scripture says: "Great skill seems clumsy; great eloquence seems slow." To augment truth then subtract outwardly.'

### Forty-seventh Question: Concerning Subtraction  
Again he asked, 'What is Subtraction?' The answer was, 'Subtraction is when the man of the Way acts, he subtracts for himself and not for others. If he puts himself before others, he has virtue. The man without the Way, when acting, subtracts others and not himself. If he puts others before himself, he has no virtue. He who has virtue is non-action. He who has no virtue is action. To act without subtracting things is to have the Way; to act with subtracting things is to have no Way. The Scripture says: "To follow the Way is daily subtraction." Outward subtraction exhausts things; thus the Way is benefited.'

### Forty-eighth Question: Concerning Addition  
Again he asked, 'What is Addition?' The answer was, 'Addition is to benefit the true; this is the principle of the Way. Those who awaken to the Way learn the right teaching; those who comprehend add true. Those lost in the world learn false teaching; those who do not comprehend add to the body. To add true is to illuminate the Way; to add the body is to weigh down things. To illuminate the Way is pure goodness; to weigh down things is greed and contention. Pure goodness is to accumulate virtue; greed and contention is to accumulate karma. Those with myriad deeds truly ascend. Those with myriad industries the body falls. The Scripture says: "To study is daily addition." Those studying to add to the Way’s truth, this is longevity.'

### Forty-ninth Question: Concerning Longevity  
Again he asked, 'What is Longevity?' The answer was, 'Longevity is man’s length, thus to follow the Way and truly lengthen; to forget emotion is to lengthen destiny; to be good and clear and subtle is Heaven’s length; to communicate wisdom is principle’s length. True length is to attain the emptiness and nothingness body. Destiny length is to have treasure’s bright circle. Heaven length is auspicious smoke curling. Principle length is natural communication. To understand emptiness and nothingness is to complete the Way. To understand bright circle is to complete destiny. To understand auspicious smoke is to complete spirit. To understand nature is to complete virtue. The Scripture says: "Heaven is long and Earth enduring." To follow Heaven’s length is to be without shortness.'

### Fiftieth Question: Concerning Shortness  
Again he asked, 'What is Shortness?' The answer was, 'Shortness is to keep the Way without end, then the will is short; to see good without compassion, then the conduct is short; to not reverence the two respected, then filial piety is short. A short will has no功. No compassion has no conduct. No filial piety forgets kindness. Having will is to complete the Way. Having compassion is to complete virtue. Repaying kindness is to complete filial piety. No Way, no virtue, no filial piety is shortness. Having Way, virtue, filial piety is no shortness. The Scripture says: "This is not good!" Short wisdom is born of false craft.'

### Fifty-first Question: Concerning Craft  
Again he asked, 'What is Craft?' The answer was, 'Craft is to weigh down myriad crafts of action, to illuminate myriad profits, and to have much profit, then it harms the body. To sever myriad crafts of non-action, to illuminate myriad purity and much purity, then it completes the body. Worldly profits abundant bring disaster. The Way pure and abundant brings fortune. False craft brings disaster. True purity brings fortune. Lost in having is false; awakened to having-not is true. False having is what harms; true having-not is what invades good. The Scripture says: "Cut off craft and abandon profit; no thieves or robbers." The wise forget false craft and keep true clumsiness.'

### Fifty-second Question: Concerning Clumsiness  
Again he asked, 'What is Clumsiness?' The answer was, 'Clumsiness is utmost nature communicating worthiness. Outward appearance seems foolish and clumsy; this is called returning to simplicity. True wisdom communicating culture, false form and innocent clumsiness; this is called concealment. Facing false confusion and obscurity, clumsy is bright. Facing true awakening and clarity, clumsy is accomplished. Communicating with the world is to communicate with things; communicating with the Way is true attainment. Seeing common men is to respond to having; the natural change of schemes communicates with having. Seeing the knowledgeable friend is to respond to having-not; the natural change of schemes communicates with having-not. Outwardly clumsy but truly not foolish. The Scripture says: "Nature has craft and clumsiness to conceal." Utmost craft seeming clumsy is praised by the wise.'

### Fifty-third Question: Concerning Praise  
Again he asked, 'What is Praise?' The answer was, 'Praise among gentlemen is to raise man’s beauty and hide man’s ugliness. Among the mean, it is to hide man’s beauty and raise man’s ugliness. To hide man’s ugliness and evil, and raise man’s beauty and goodness, this is called virtue. To raise man’s ugliness and evil, and hide man’s beauty and goodness, this is called fault. Those virtuous are again esteemed; those with faults are again despised. Today the world esteems men, the next world men esteem less. Today the world despises men, the next world men despise less. Perfect virtue is to ascend. Faults and confusion in the world cause falling. The Scripture says: "The wise do not speak; those who speak are not wise." Good praise is free from evil blame.'

### Fifty-fourth Question: Concerning Blame  
Again he asked, 'What is Blame?' The answer was, 'Blame, those who blame are foolish and do not know the worthy; those who do not blame are worthy and know the foolish. The foolish raise evil and suppress goodness; the worthy urge evil and return it to goodness. The foolish produce faults and show their forms, seeking fortune. The worthy extinguish faults and forget their form, guarding the Way. The lost have evil and goodness; the awakened have no evil and no goodness. The good have no constancy; the evil have constancy. Constancy is called the Way. The Scripture says: "Fools regard Heaven and Earth’s laws as sacred; I regard time and things’ laws as wise." To be without blame is to forget impure thought.'

### Fifty-fifth Question: Concerning Forgetfulness  
Again he asked, 'What is Forgetfulness?' The answer was, 'Forgetfulness is to think of the Way then forget the world; to think of the Right and then forget the Wrong; this is called confusion and awakening. To think of the Way is to cultivate truth; to think of the world is to nourish the body. To think of the Right is to communicate ultimate principle; to think of the Wrong is to cultivate the coloured body. To think of truth has功 without fault; nourishing the body has no功 with fault. To think of the Right is to have practice without attachment. To think of the Wrong is to have attachment without practice. The Scripture says: "The heart is born from things and dies from things." To understand principle and know its pivot is truly forgetting thought, without greed outside.'

### Fifty-sixth Question: Concerning Greed  
Again he asked, 'What is Greed?' The answer was, 'Greed is that desire causes loss of destiny; greed for wealth causes loss of body. The lost are first sweet then bitter; the enlightened are first bitter then sweet. Losing destiny and body is foolishness. Completing destiny and body is worthiness. The impure are greedy for the world and depart from the Way. The pure forget the world and attain the Way. The Scripture says: "No sin is greater than desire; no disaster greater than not knowing contentment." Not greedy for worldly falsehood is truly embracing the Way.'

### Fifty-seventh Question: Concerning the Way  
Again he asked, 'What is the Way?' The answer was, 'The Way is to communicate things and have no things; this is the Way. To know emptiness and not be empty is constancy; this is called the constant Way. The constant Way attained is to communicate non-action. The non is to illuminate the subtle indistinctness; the action is to illuminate the principle of transformation. The non is beyond Yin and Yang; the action is the clarity of myriad transformations. To attain the non and illuminate the having; to communicate the action and illuminate the having-not. Not weighed down by forms. The Scripture says: "The Way is constant non-action and yet nothing is undone." The Way’s action is not small goodness transforming into the vulgar.'

### Fifty-eighth Question: Concerning the World  
Again he asked, 'What is the World?' The answer was, 'The world is the common body of man. The true is utmost spirit. Called having things. Beyond having is the Way before Heaven and Earth. The thing’s exterior; nature is beyond Yin and Yang. Having and manifest is as seeing jade in stone. Thing and manifest is as seeing a pearl in a shell. Having is man’s form. Thing is true nature. When form ends, nature remains constant. When things end, breath remains constant. Lost in having things, soul and spirit scatter. Awakened to the Way and nature, creation completes. The Scripture says: "Having things mixed and formed, born before Heaven and Earth." Outwardly responding to the world without error.'

### Fifty-ninth Question: Concerning Wrong  
Again he asked, 'What is Wrong?' The answer was, 'Wrong is that the superior man walks darkly in pure goodness and great attainment. The inferior man openly indulges in impure evil and laughs greatly. The pure follows the Way and abides. The impure opposes the Way and perishes. The worthy are not outwardly worthy. The foolish are not outwardly foolish. Purity, impurity, worthiness, folly, long have the world known them. The sun and moon’s brightness is not from themselves; the myriad eyes under Heaven see their brightness. The Scripture says: "The inferior man hears the Way and laughs greatly. It is not so."'

### Sixtieth Question: Concerning Right  
Again he asked, 'What is Right?' The answer was, 'Right is to follow the Way, then truly right. Wrong is to follow things, then falsely wrong. To understand the true is not to cling to the false. To understand right is not to speak of wrong. To understand the true is to subtly communicate the Way. To understand right is to subtly communicate Heaven. To understand the Way is to have功. To understand Heaven is to have practice. 功 is the Yang Way. Practice is Yin virtue. If privately saving myriad forms, this is called Yang功. If secretly saving myriad sufferings, this is called Yin virtue. The Scripture says: "He who sees himself is not bright; he who says he is right is not manifest." To be self-right and think of the Way and respond to things is to have thought.'

### Sixty-first Question: Concerning Thought  
Again he asked, 'What is Thought?' The answer was, 'Enlightened thought is to know myriad purity and act, then there is myriad goodness; to know myriad love and act, then there is myriad evil. Having myriad purity and goodness is true ascent. Having myriad love and evil is false descent. To live without fault is to die without sorrow. To live with fault is to die with sorrow. The Scripture says: "My words are easy to know, easy to act, but under Heaven none can know, none can act." To think and know the subtlety of principle is to forget the world.'

### Sixty-second Question: Concerning the World  
Again he asked, 'What is the World?' The answer was, 'The world is to communicate worldly knowledge of men, then forget the world and turn to the Way. Lost in the world without knowing men, then cling to the world and turn away from the Way. Truly communicating myriad things is to depart from the shell of myriad things. Falsely lost in myriad things is to be in the shell of myriad things. Truly departing from the shell of things is the Way. Falsely dwelling in the shell of things is dust. Truly in the Way, there is no birth or death. Falsely in dust, there is birth and death. To awaken is wisdom communication; to be lost is ignorance. The Scripture says: "He who knows men is wise. When things are exhausted and beyond the world, then their profundity is manifest."'

### Sixty-third Question: Concerning Subtlety  
Again he asked, 'What is Subtlety?' The answer was, 'Subtlety is that truly without desire, nature is like the full bright moon, and one observes its subtlety; falsely with desire, it is like a glow-worm’s flickering light, seen as dim. The full bright moon shines on all directions; the glow-worm’s light is a single point. Ten directions illuminated is to communicate myriad transformations. A single point illuminated is to hold to one law. Communicating transformations accommodates error. Holding to law maligns correctness. Without high or low communication, this is correctness. With hatred and love and clinging, this is error. The Scripture says: "Always be without desire to observe its subtlety; always have desire to observe its thoroughness." To attain subtlety is to illuminate its depth.'

### Sixty-fourth Question: Concerning the Minute  
Again he asked, 'What is the Minute?' The answer was, 'The minute is to see its depth and subtlety and thus illuminate the Way; to illuminate its deep thought is to communicate with the world. To communicate the Way is to anticipate communication with the world. To communicate with the world is to not communicate the Way. To illuminate the Way is to lift up; to communicate the world is to respect. To communicate the Way and follow the Way is to attain. To communicate the world and forget the world is to be worthy. The attained transform the world’s worthy. The worthy transform the world’s foolish. The foolish illuminated are worthy. The worthy illuminated are attained. The Scripture says: "Subtle and profound communication, deep and inscrutable." To awaken to the profundity is to know no boundary.'

### Sixty-fifth Question: Concerning the Square  
Again he asked, 'What is the Square?' The answer was, 'The square is Heaven and Earth’s shape, born in myriad things. Not by choosing whom to love or favour are things born. The Supreme spreads virtue and saves myriad spirits, not by loving the noble or abandoning the low. Heaven and Earth are born in myriad things, spreading breath evenly. The Supreme saves myriad spirits, spreading virtue evenly. When myriad things communicate breath, they communicate Heaven and Earth’s great gracious功. When myriad spirits communicate virtue, they communicate the Supreme’s great gracious practice. Called Heaven, Earth, and sage man, as if private utmost功 and practice. The Scripture says: "Therefore the sage is square and yet does not cut." To truly understand its square inch is destiny’s bright circle.'

### Sixty-sixth Question: Concerning the Round  
Again he asked, 'What is the Round?' The answer was, 'The round is Heaven’s round light. To look at the sun is the full moon. On the dark day the light is exhausted. Man’s destiny light, on the fifteenth, connects gestation, sixteen years and destiny full; on the eighth-eight, the hexagram is complete. Light exhausted is that Heaven has no brightness. Hexagram complete is that man has no destiny. Less desire lengthens destiny; more desire shortens life. Called the waxing and waning of Heaven and man. Without feeling, destiny abides. Without thing, nature communicates. Destiny communicating with nature is like water meeting earth. Nature communicating with destiny is like earth meeting water. Constant good communication is true fire descending. Nine turns complete, form not perishing. The Scripture says: "To see the small sun bright." Brightness of the round light is response.'

### Sixty-seventh Question: Concerning Response  
Again he asked, 'What is Response?' The answer was, 'The formless Way does not respond to the formed body. The formless nature does not respond to the emotional rites. Those esteeming reality are the immortal Way; then the Way responds to their nature. Those esteeming splendour are the human Way; then form responds to rites. To respond to nature is true; to respond to rites is false. Heaven’s Way suppresses the high and raises the low. Man’s Way lessens the poor and serves the rich. To follow Heaven’s Way is to oppose man’s Way. To follow man’s Way is to oppose Heaven’s Way. The Scripture says: "The superior reveres rites, but none respond." The Way responding to non-action is truly communicating transformation.'

### Sixty-eighth Question: Concerning Transformation  
Again he asked, 'What is Transformation?' The answer was, 'Transformation is non-action true transformation, like the moon in water’s mirror; action false transformation, like a mirror reflecting form. To know non-action transformation is true nature communicating. To see action transformation is false form’s force. Communication is the unfeeling true, forgetting the emotional false. Force is emotional false, obscuring the unfeeling true. True transformation is nature communicating the Way. False transformation is body greedy in profit. The Way communicating completes nature. Greedy for profit harms the body. The Scripture says: "To do non-action, nothing is not governed." To respond to true transformation is that the Way is unfeeling.'

### Sixty-ninth Question: Concerning Emotion  
Again he asked, 'What is Emotion?' The answer was, 'Emotion is that when bent, the Way’s nature is unfeeling, yet the body seems to have emotion. When held, the Way’s nature has emotion, yet the body seems without emotion. Bent nature has no emotion, thus no leak. Held nature has emotion, thus leak. Bent is worthy; held is foolish. Without leak and worthy is to have Way and virtue. With leak and without worthy is to have no Way and no virtue. The true Way is that soul and spirit are complete. The bright virtue is that myriad transformations communicate. The Scripture says: "I have no desire, and the people are naturally simple; I have no emotion, and the people are naturally pure. The Way without emotion is true, not attached to worldly things."'

### Seventieth Question: Concerning Things  
Again he asked, 'What are Things?' The answer was, 'Things are that man dwells in the shell of things, like a fish in a net; man leaves the shell of things, like the true dwelling in the Way. Fish in the net, leave water and die. The true in the Way, leave things and live. Fish not greedy for bait, fish always in water. Man not greedy for things, man always in the Way. Fish in water live; man in the Way lives. Fish gaining pearl’s light transforms. Man gaining breath and impetus communicates. These two, lost is death; awakened is life. The Scripture says: "Heaven’s net is wide and vast, loose but does not miss." Outside things is to forget schemes.'

### Seventy-first Question: Concerning Scheme  
Again he asked, 'What is Scheme?' The answer was, 'Scheme is wisdom. The man without the Way uses wisdom and wealth to harm others and secure himself; this is called a thief. The man with the Way uses wisdom to harm himself and secure others; this is called fortune. Little wisdom is foolish and evil. Great wisdom is worthy and good. The foolish oppose Heaven. The worthy follow Heaven. Opposing Heaven, the body falls. Following Heaven, truly ascending. To fall is Yin Way impure. To ascend is Yang Way pure. The Scripture says: "The people are hard to govern because their wisdom is much." Natural wisdom, clear in the Way, is without worry.'

### Seventy-second Question: Concerning Worry  
Again he asked, 'What is Worry?' The answer was, 'Lost in the world is the heart; awakened to the Way is no worry. Greedy and contending carry myriad worries. Pure goodness cuts off myriad worries. Darkness is boundless sin. Brightness is boundless fortune. No good is constant evil. No evil is constant good. Constant evil accumulates fault. Constant good accumulates virtue. Fault is Yin suffering. Virtue is Yang joy. The world knows profit but not harm. The Way knows fortune but not greed. The Scripture says: "To know not to know is best; not to know to know is sickness." To cut off worry and exhaust things is utmost Way closeness.'

### Seventy-third Question: Concerning Closeness  
Again he asked, 'What is Closeness?' The answer was, 'Closeness is that men ask what is close, fame and profit are close, false treasure is close. Outside things what is close is Way and virtue, true treasure is close. False closeness is fame and profit; wealth has favour and disgrace. With false treasure, there are evil men who obstruct. True closeness is Way and virtue, thus pure and even. With true treasure, there are good men who invade. False benefits the body, thus harms truth. True benefits the body, thus harms false. The Scripture says: "Fame and body, which is closer? Body and goods, which is more?" When close to the Way, things are distant.'

### Seventy-fourth Question: Concerning Distance  
Again he asked, 'What is Distance?' The answer was, 'Distance is aversion to the world; then the Way is not distant. Aversion to profit means the body is unharmed. Aversion to nobility means the body is not low. The Way not distant is to communicate worldly affairs. The body unharmed is to communicate profit. The body not low is to communicate nobility. To communicate the world is to have goodness return. To communicate profit, fortune returns. To communicate nobility, virtue returns. Constant goodness is to communicate spirit. True fortune is to communicate destiny. Utmost virtue is to communicate Heaven. The Scripture says: "Therefore cannot be close nor distant. Not distant from the Way’s truth is to understand its long duration."'

### Seventy-fifth Question: Concerning Distance  
Again he asked, 'What is Distance?' The answer was, 'Distance is that the Way embraces length and distance; Heaven high and covering far; Earth bearing things far; king is great and clear far. The Way is bright through antiquity. Heaven is bright through myriad images. Earth gives birth to myriad things. The king quiets myriad people. The Way embraces without exclusion. Heaven covers without omission. Earth bears without rejection. The king contains without exclusion. The Scripture says: "Great is to pass away; to pass away is to be distant." The Way not distant is the true; to communicate the Way is to be near.'

### Seventy-sixth Question: Concerning Nearness  
Again he asked, 'What is Near?' The answer was, 'Near is near to the Way’s body; to behold the body without the Way. Near is near to the Way’s family; to behold the family without the Way. Near is near to the Way’s village; to behold the village without the Way. Near is near to the Way’s state; to behold the state without the Way. Near is near to the Way’s world; to behold the world without the Way. The body is filial to repay parents’ kindness. The family is good like the lords Xu and Pang. The village’s conduct is pity for poor and love for old. The state is pure and all people are rich. When the world has the Way, the world is ripe. The Scripture says: "Therefore by body to view body." To understand the Way is truly to act.'

### Seventy-seventh Question: Concerning Conduct  
Again he asked, 'What is Conduct?' The answer was, 'Conduct is what the Supreme practices, the Way of Heaven. Heaven and Earth speak not, but secretly bestow grace, giving birth to myriad things. The Supreme speaks not, but secretly bestows virtue, conducting myriad goodness. Heaven and Earth speak not, but grace and goodness respond. The Supreme speaks not, but teaching and goodness communicate. When myriad things complete, the people are rich. When myriad transformations are clear, true communication is. When the people are rich, the state is peaceful. When true communication is, joy without affairs is. When the people are rich, each is a scholar, farmer, artisan, and merchant. When true communication is, the Supreme’s non-action is revealed. The Scripture says: "To act in teaching without speech. The Way has no place to act; virtue has no place to abide."'

### Seventy-eighth Question: Concerning Abiding  
Again he asked, 'What is Abiding?' The answer was, 'Abiding is to dwell. True has no emotion, yet form abides in the Way. False has emotion, yet body dwells in the world. True form communicates with the Way. False body responds to things. True forgets form, then is the Way. Body responds to the world, then is virtue. Heart with emotion is lost. Body distant from the world is attached. Having Way and virtue is no loss or attachment. No Way or virtue is loss and attachment. True having Way and virtue is to have worthiness and goodness. False no Way or virtue is to have folly and evil. The Scripture says: "At ease in dwelling, joyful in the world. Ever abiding in the Supreme Nothing, so it is."'

### Seventy-ninth Question: Concerning Sole  
Again he asked, 'What is Sole?' The answer was, 'Sole is the sole three realms; the Way manifests without restraint. Floating over four seas, the true is hidden and without companion. The Way unrestrained is beyond Yin and Yang. The true without companion is in the blue sky. The Way’s body is neither empty nor colour. The true light neither wanes nor waxes. To attain the non is to depart from myriad things’ shell. To communicate action is to reveal myriad wisdom’s brightness. Heaven’s great grace is as if no grace. Accumulating great virtue is as if no virtue. This is called perceiving Heaven’s Way. The Scripture says: "Those who only do not dwell, therefore do not depart." Only delighting in the Way and responding to the scheme is to grieve the multitude.'

### Eightieth Question: Concerning the Multitude  
Again he asked, 'What is the Multitude?' The answer was, 'The multitude is what the multitude manifest: love of name and profit, love of right and wrong. What I am confused about is forgetting name and profit, forgetting right and wrong. The multitude loves name, then there is disgrace; I forget name, then there is no disgrace. The multitude loves profit, then there is harm; I forget profit, then there is no harm. The multitude loves right, then there is wrong; I forget right, then there is no wrong. The multitude loves wrong, then there is fault; I forget wrong, then there is no fault. The Scripture says: "The multitude is bright; I alone am as one confused."'
