# The Record of Qian Jinghai of Taizhou Meeting an Immortal

Qian Hai was a native of Linhai in Zhejiang. In his early years he devoted himself to the mysteries of the Dao, and took pleasure in the garments of the Taoists. He would often say to his companions, "Hereafter I shall become a Taoist, and roam the four seas." He even studied the drawing of talismans within his own chamber. His schoolfellows all laughed at him. In the year 2007, Qian Hai came to Nanchang to pursue his studies. When his tasks were light, he would often visit the Wanshou Palace on West Hill, and the Wanshou Palace of Nanchang, to pay homage; he would wander amidst the Xuantan palaces and temples, and linger long without willing to depart.

On the first day of the eighth month of the lunar calendar is the sacred birthday of Lord Xu. In many parts of Jiangxi, devotees would go to the Wanshou Palace on West Hill to worship Lord Xu. At that time, Qian Jinghai also went thither. On that very night, Qian Hai, with several fellow students, rambled about the town of Xishan, when suddenly by the roadside an old mendicant appeared. Though his hair was unkempt and soiled, his eyes shone with spirit; between his brows there was a certain elegance. He seized Qian Hai and said, "Master, give me some money." The friends who accompanied him thought the beggar was a cheat, and scornfully disregarded him. But Qian Jinghai said, "He looks very pitiful." So he gave him all the small change he had, amounting to several tens of yuan. The old man laughed heartily, and said, "Since you give me so much, I will give you a thing in return." Thereupon he took from his pocket a copper coin and presented it to Qian Hai.

There was a custom at the temple fair of West Hill, that at midnight twelve o'clock, the new robe of Lord Xu was to be changed; this was the most lively time of the festival. Qian Hai and some fellow students also came to behold it, and partake of the joy of the ritual. At this hour one of the students said, "Look you, does not this image of Lord Xu resemble that old man just now?" Qian Hai said, "Indeed it does." Then they observed that one copper coin was missing from Lord Xu's robe, and the coin on the robe was exactly the same as that which the old man had just given to Qian Hai, bearing the inscription of four characters, "Divine Power Wondrous Salvation."

Only then did Qian Hai know that he had just met an immortal; forthwith he bowed his head and worshipped the sacred grace. Afterwards he took refuge in the Jingming sect, and received the Taoist name of Qian Jinghai. He devoted himself to the practice of the arts of the Jingming school, vowing to propagate the teaching and benefit all living beings.
