# The Devoutness of Master Jin, the Tea-house Keeper, and the Response of the Yellow Emperor

Master Jin was a man of Lishui. In the year 2013 he undertook the lease of the tea-house within the temple of the Yellow Emperor. At the first he intended only to gain some profit. But business was not prosperous, yet Master Jin himself was not vexed; on the contrary, he became more devout, and every day on going to his work he would go to the great hall and worship the Yellow Emperor Xuanyuan. He often said to his wife, “To serve in the temple is a meritorious deed; whether or not we make money, the cleanliness of the tea-house must be well maintained.” Later, on account of other matters, he left the temple of the Yellow Emperor.

Not long after his departure from the temple, Master Jin, together with Manager Zhang and one Lao Gen from the northeast, set out by car for Jiangxi. Zhang was the driver. As they drove upon the highway near Jiujiang, the road was good and they talked and laughed together. Suddenly the car struck the guardrail on one side, then rebounded to the other guardrail, and then again back to the first guardrail. With a loud crash the car caught fire. Yet Master Jin was unharmed, though his spectacles were thrown off. The driver Zhang had a wound on his eyebrow, from which the blood flowed. Master Jin hastened to lift Zhang from the car. Then he sought for Lao Gen, calling aloud, “Lao Gen! Lao Gen!” But there was no answer. Feeling about on the ground, he found hair scattered, and thought thus, “This is ill; Lao Gen must be dead.” But then reflecting, “No, Lao Gen is not bald,” he continued his search. At this moment, some farmers below the highway called out, saying, “A man is here.” It appeared that Lao Gen had been thrown some ten or more metres, and had fallen beneath the highway. He was unhurt, save that some bones were fractured.

Presently the traffic police arrived, and first they brought Master Jin and Lao Gen up from beneath the highway. Then the police asked Master Jin, “Are you unhurt?” Jin replied, “I am well.” The police said, “Say nothing. We deal often with traffic accidents; many are unhurt, but on speaking they vomit blood and die. You shall sit in our car and not move.” Then they conveyed Master Jin, Zhang, and Lao Gen together to the Poyang Hospital. A thorough examination showed that indeed all were well. Afterwards Master Jin took a hired motor to have his spectacles made. On returning to the hospital, the head nurse came with a company of nurses and, seeing Master Jin, touched him. Master Jin was somewhat puzzled. The nurses said, “Today a great lucky star has come to us; we all desire to share in his good fortune.”

Then Master Jin thought thus: “In such a case, it is commonly said, disaster is sure to befall; but I am unharmed. Why so? It must be that Xuanyuan the Yellow Emperor has protected me. For in the time that I served in the temple of the Yellow Emperor, my heart was filled with benevolent thoughts, and I guarded the temple. Though my financial offering was small, my sincerity was truly moved by the spirits.”
