# Genealogy Record of the Three Sovereigns of the Supreme Clarity

Title of Scripture: Genealogy Record of the Three Sovereigns of the Supreme Clarity. Author unknown, probably composed at the end of the Northern and Southern Dynasties or about the Sui and Tang periods. Within it are recounted the origins and teachings of the Divine Lords such as the Seven Perfected of Golden Brightness. One scroll. Source text: in the category of Genealogies and Registers of the Dongzhen section of the Zhengtong Daozang.

Genealogy Record of the Three Sovereigns of the Supreme Clarity

Record of the Three Sovereigns of the Supreme Elder of the Nine Heavens

The Perfected said: From Supreme Clarity, Numinous Treasure, Three Sovereigns, Five Sacred Mountains, the Five Thousand Texts and others, all cultivate and revere these Three Sovereigns. This is the original method of the Golden Brightness's first response. The celestial beings of the Ten Directions, if they have my master Golden Brightness as their teacher according to this law, are thereby one with me in the Jade Realm. From this point may one cease and take to writing the divine and perfect illustrations and registers. Do not indiscriminately write what has gone before, lest there be offence incurred.

The First Degree Master is the Supreme Mysterious True Bright Dao Sovereign, who is the Primordial Supreme August Elder. His family name is Cong, the Perfected said: this is the correct sound Wu. His style name is Wei, the Perfected said: this is the correct sound Yan Shi Yin. His appellation is Ku, the Perfected said: this is the correct sound Guan Wu Guan. His form is eight zhang in height; his bodily appearance is golden; his essence is the Seven Treasures; his neck is thin and adorned with a five-coloured radiance; his head is crowned with a luminous flowing jade crown; he wears the robe of the Nine Radiances of the Flying Mound; over his shoulders is cast a flowing light and cloud-bright flying mysterious seamless natural precious cloak; he girds the pearls of the sun and moon; he wears the jade ribbon of shining thunder and fiery light; above him is the flying jade floral canopy of Seven Treasures; his feet tread on the luminous sky of the Three Heavens; seated he is on the throne of the five-coloured lion; on all sides, before, behind, right and left, are thirty thousand jade boys and jade maidens. The Perfected constantly burn incense and scatter flowers, attending before the Dao. Around him are arrayed the multitudes of true primordial spirits, clothed in the robes of flying heaven’s brilliant light, all seated upon the seats of natural spiritual flowers. The true form of the Dao Sovereign’s image is always in the upper Supreme Clarity, in the golden image palace, the Jingtian Mansion, the Eight Bright Villages of the True. The Perfected said: The celestial beings of the Ten Directions who receive the Dao should preserve the complete image of my master thus. Immediately ascending to the Supreme, the divine light shines down upon your body; the true sign descends. Thus with the heart perform three bows. The preservation of the true is complete.

With the heart’s desire then pronounce this prayer:

May the Limitless Supreme Mysterious True Primordial Heavenly Exalted One, descend upon such and such in their successive lives, surviving and passing, feathered and bright flying chariot; universally bestow deliverance from the Ten Pains and Eight Hardships, ascending to the supreme hall of flying heavens of the Ten Directions; receive felicity and joy, at ease in the grove of the Seven Treasures. May all under heaven be thereby opened and delivered; all knots of confusion be dissolved. When my body attains the Dao, may I ascend into the formless.

The Second Degree Master is the Original Supreme Mysterious Elder, who is the High Supreme True King of the Nine Heavens. His family name is Cong, the Perfected said: this is the correct sound Xu Wu. His style name is Yi, the Perfected said: this is the correct sound Shang Guan Ji. His appellation is Bi, the Perfected said: this is the correct sound Yun Fan Ling. His form is eight zhang in height; his bodily appearance glows with golden brilliance and treasures; his essence is vermilion sun; his neck is thin and adorned with a nine-coloured wheel; his head is crowned with a golden flowing jade crown; he wears robes of tri-coloured flying brocade; over his shoulders is cast the seamless natural precious cloak of cloud-bright phoenix colours; he girds the morning light, sun bells, twin pearls, and bright moon; he wears the ribbon of divine golden shining jade; above him is the flying cloud canopy of Seven Treasures; his feet tread upon the luminous rosy clouds of the Nine Heavens; seated he is on the throne of the nine-coloured lion; on all sides, before, behind, right and left, are also thirty thousand jade boys and maidens. The Perfected constantly burn incense of a hundred harmonies and blends, scattering flowers of flowing five-coloured clouds, attending before the Dao. Around him are arrayed the multitudes of true unimpeded primordial spirits, clothed in the robes of flying heaven’s Seven Treasures, all seated upon the seats of natural seven-coloured lotuses. The true form of the Dao Sovereign’s image is always in the Supreme Clarity, in the Golden Orchid Palace, the Great Ultimate Mansion, the Enlightened Village, the True Connection. The Perfected said: When the complete image of the master is preserved, then the divine light shines down upon your body. Thus with the heart perform three bows.

Preserving the true is complete; with the heart’s desire then pronounce this prayer:

May the Limitless Supreme Elder Heavenly Exalted One universally open the great compassionate and immeasurable vehicle of the Dharma, to succour the Ten Directions of Heaven and Earth; may the emperors and kings and rulers have peace and the realm endure; all ministers and multitudes, ten thousand millions, be all blessed and protected. Descending to such and such in their successive lives, soaring through the void of the Nine Heavens, ascending to the Mysterious Capital before the Limitless Dao. May all enemies and kin be equalized; may all offences be fully resolved. When we attain the Dao, may we ascend into the formless.

The Third Degree Master, the Perfected said: This is the Present Deliverer who responds to the signs, and is the Golden Brightness Seven Perfected. His family name is Yu, the Perfected said: this is the correct sound Xu Xuan Miao. His style name is Zhuan, the Perfected said: this is the correct sound Yan Shi Ming. His appellation is Ning, the Perfected said: this is the correct sound Xi Shang Wu. His form is eight zhang in height; his bodily appearance shines with golden brilliance and treasures, illuminating the Ten Directions; his neck is thin and adorned with the seven-treasure wheel; his head is crowned with a golden shining, flying spirit, hundredfold changing jade crown; he wears the robe of flowing light and natural cloud brocade; over his shoulders is cast the flying frost pearl natural great bright precious cloak; he girds the bells of the sun and moon’s bright image; he wears the flying golden and lightning jade ribbon; above him is the canopy of bright light and nine-coloured treasures; his feet tread the flying rosy clouds of the jade true Nine Heavens, the three glories; seated he is on the throne of embroidered clouds and dragon smoke; on all sides, before, behind, right and left, are also thirty thousand jade boys and maidens. The Perfected constantly burn incense of a hundred harmonies and reverse life spirits, scattering flowers of flowing clouds of nine colours, attending before the Dao. Around him are arrayed the multitudes of true unimpeded spirits of the Ten Directions, all clothed in the robes of flying heaven, all seated upon the seats of natural reverse life spiritual flowers. The true form of Golden Brightness’s image is always in the Supreme Clarity, in the Jade True High Supreme Nine Heavens, Golden Image, Luminous Jade Kingdom, Dan Spirit Upper Palace, Open Supreme Divine Mansion, Nine True Villages, Upper Luminous Golden Wheel Village. The Perfected said: Temporarily responding to the world, the present deliverer, is the master of the Dharma transformation of heaven and man. When the complete image of the master is preserved, then the divine light shines down upon your body. Thus with the heart perform three bows. Preserving the true is complete; with the heart’s desire then pronounce this prayer:

May the Three Sovereigns open deliverance to my countless ancestors through successive lives, forever ascending the blessed realm, their forms receiving the light and image, enduring through kalpas unceasingly. All the secluded in the mountains, dwelling and learning the true, comrades in spirit, may they all attain the true Dao; the cloud chariot and green carriage swiftly descend. The day I attain the Dao, may I ascend into the formless.

Preface to the Golden Brightness Mysterious Response Chapter

The Perfected Xu Wu said: My master Golden Brightness, in times past responded to the movement of Red Brightness, together with the High Supreme Nine Heavens Upper Emperor Primordial Lord,

The Perfected said: The Primordial Lord is the title of the Nine Heavens Upper Jade Void True King Dao Sovereign, who governs upon the Nine Heavens Bright True Platform.

The Nine Heavens Upper Emperor Lao Jun,

The Perfected said: Lao Jun is the High Supreme Jade Void Supreme Elder Lord, also called High Supreme Jade Emperor, or called the Dongzhen Emperor One Sovereign, governing at the Supreme Clarity Nine Heavens Platform.

All ride the chariot of the sun, moon, and jade wheel, wandering above the Great Origin Bright Sky Guanghan, beyond the eight vast spaces, traversing and surveying the nine origins’ smoke transformations. They return and ascend the Dongluo Fu Guangtong Brahma Heaven,

The Perfected said: This Heaven is the proper name of the Upper Nine Vermilion Heavens of the Southern Pole of the Jade Void Flying Heavens, the place governed by the Supreme Clarity Wing Sun Void Emperor Dao Sovereign.

Golden Brightness Jade Kingdom,

The Perfected said: This is the general name of a domain among the heavens. Only the Eight Pole Void Emperor travels here; within it are three brilliant shining golden morning palaces, wrapped with thirty thousand layers of natural jade inscriptions. The treasure palace is surrounded on all sides by flying morning jade radiance, shining and bright. This palace is also called the residence of the Void Emperor Lord, and is also the dwelling of the Jade True Golden Immortal.

Luminous Jade Platform,

The Perfected said: This platform is the name of the Jade Void Southern Upper Vermilion Mound platform. The platform is ten thousand ren high; throughout it flows essence, treasures, mysterious brilliance, bright pearls, and jade light. Condensed and standing firm, it is this spiritual platform. The platform naturally shines with bright illumination, penetrating emptiness, shining and illuminating, reflecting the southern direction’s primal measure heavens. It is also the residence of the Supreme Clarity Upper Bright Supreme Jade Emperor Lord.

Spirit Capital’s Cave.

The Perfected said: The Spirit Capital is the Upper Capital of the Vermilion Heaven Upper Void Emperor Dao Sovereign; within it are three primal cave heavens, the upper cave the great silence’s realm, the lower connects to the endless domain, the middle governed by the three primal primal qi elders. Within the cave heaven there is natural flowing bright jade essence, vermilion glow and phoenix colours, sun and moon radiance, flying morning smoke, constantly blazing within the three primals, resembling the abundance of flowing fire. Here the primordial one previously refined great true inscriptions; to this day there remains this upper excellent spiritual store. Hence it is called the Cave. Those perfected who attain the Dao and ascend do not fail first to visit the Southern Vermilion Cave Heaven, to refine the essence and corpse qi, to receive again bright image, shining forth golden appearance, precious radiance and solemnity, with exquisite form complete; their body is like the great brightness of the vermilion sun. Thus they may ride the void and float aloft, ascend the wondrous silence above, brilliant in image and awe, magnificent in ten directions; this may be called the body enduring long, here is the completion.

In the first year of the Mysterious Origin, in the cycle of Jiawu, the first day of the first month at noon, together with the Great Light Primordial Three Sovereigns, they received the Dongxuan Numinous Treasure Primordial Five Elders Red Script True Text.

The Perfected said: This year’s title is Sun and Moon; all is within the time of the Red Brightness kalpa. The Great Light Primordial Three Sovereigns are the Primordial High Void Emperor Primordial. To the time of the Upper Emperor’s first year, already five kalpas have passed.

At that time the Three Sovereigns descended to receive and ascended the Jade Treasure Everlasting Brightness Altar.

The Perfected said: The Jade Treasure is the centre of the Vermilion Heaven, naturally flowing golden jade essence, sun and moon radiance, condensed and truly formed into this altar. The altar has nine layers, corresponding to the number of the Nine Heavens. It is nine thousand ren high, shining and illuminating the ten directions. Here is where Golden Brightness ascended, and Mysterious Response received the charge from the Primordial Heavenly Exalted One.

The True Emperor of the Nine Heavens, the Unsurpassed Three Heavenly True Kings, the Primordial Five Elders monitoring and delivering, swore an oath, with Heaven, Earth, and the Three Officials of Water as witnesses. Only truth is longed for.

The Perfected said: "Only truth is longed for" means the mysterious sage’s response, the wondrous transformation now flourishing, the great vehicle leading and ushering, universally benefiting without end, encompassing the six paths, great compassion and great mercy, widely assisting the Ten Directions, the Dharma store pure and empty, without stain or desire, pure as a wondrous mirror. It is not to be treated as a mere point along with others, but an oath of the Dharma’s summit brilliance, clear in the four symbols, condensed and serene, not to be pointed to by the common reason, nor the form of benevolent wisdom.

The Ten Directions all illumined,

The Perfected said: At that time the ten directions of heaven and earth all responded auspiciously; the seven treasures fell like rain; the celestial beings of the ten directions received blessings, the hidden and manifest rejoiced together for over nine thousand years, the sun and moon ceased their rotation.

The Nine Heavens jointly verified,

The Perfected said: That is the True Emperor and True King, who at this place gave proof.

To those who approximate the true,

The Perfected said: This statement is because the movement is not yet in operation, thus briefly matching the Dao and Dharma to the appearance of persons. If one is not of golden bone and jade store, one cannot receive it. Unless one is a named book imperial selection of mysterious chart, one may not transmit it.

Opening deliverance without measure, long filling the blessings bridge of the Ten Directions.

The Perfected said: Were it not for the Nine Heavens movement text, the Numinous Treasure would descend to teach, saving the world at the end of the kalpa. Therefore universally assisting the Ten Directions, all are made to escape the disaster of water and fire, deliverance without measure. Hence no selection is made of good or evil; all who return to the lawful vehicle obtain deliverance at the blessed shore, laying seeds for the future generations of men. Were it not for the功 of Numinous Treasure, how could this be achieved? It may be said that the virtuous kalpa has just arrived, Numinous Treasure descends to teach, all mixed and false Dao vanish by themselves, only this Dharma flourishes. Therefore it is known there is immeasurable deliverance of men, universal benefit to all living beings. Thus the compassionate Dharma enriches the Ten Directions, ever with great compassionate heart, thus moistening the three realms, broadly benefiting without obstruction, wisdom enlightening all beings, able to accomplish all heavenly and human Dharma practices, settle the heart and seek stillness, causing the multitudes to cultivate still joy, sever ignorance’s deeds, every thought returning to emptiness. Therefore to demonstrate the thirty-six sections of the honored scripture’s wondrous chanting, complete with the various conditions of emptiness and being, forms and signs, vexations and knots of confusion, showing beings the suffering and retribution not yet severed nor ended, the original cause of birth and death. Therefore opening the door to wondrous good great practice, causing living beings to see rightly the difference of guilt and blessing, urging cultivation of the Ten Precepts, reliance on the Ten Good Deeds as the supreme power among the twelve to follow, relying on the bright law, to gather and receive the confused, to awaken the great supreme realm of stillness, to make enemies and kin equal; were it not for the功 of Numinous Treasure, how could this be?

The Perfected Xu Wu said: The correct Dharma is thus to respond with right enlightenment to correct teaching, to awaken the confused masses to the correct way. The wondrous principle is profound and mysterious, indeed not to be discoursed upon by benevolence and wisdom; how dare one model it on body and mind. Moreover, the Three Sovereigns respond in sequence, per movement universal, none lacking. As the kalpa responds and appears, sometimes arising, sometimes abiding, the reason for wondrous transformation, if not this response, who else would undertake it? Then the marvel of the wondrous reaches to saintly wisdom, the spirit of the Jade Heaven approached, to show the source and depth of the Great Dao. The nature of the Dharma is profound and subtle, thus surpassing the Nine Clarities, understanding myriad ways in the unoriginated Heaven, and so responding. Its功 shines in the four symbols’ red brightness, opening darkness in confusion; the two instruments follow to obtain control. Thus the spirit chart shines wondrously in the eight assemblies, responding within the Great Ocean; therefore all directions are clearly awakened here. But the hidden darkness once enlightened, the sleepy all awake, thus from this tree arises speech, speech expounding principle. Yet there is established the teaching’s supreme saint, who, from the issuing of the rosy clouds, may be called the lord of transformation. It should respond to what is felt, alone able to be unhindered among myriad things, thus drawing on wisdom’s power and following transformation功, called the Dao, the utmost subtle and supreme marvel, wonderful beyond comparison as master of the great store. If pointing to its source and aim, the abyssal sea has no peer, thus not to be grasped by words and images. The empty heart is faint, unlike the three realms and other discourses, its功 surpassing the ends of countless multitudes, truly standing in the region beyond mind and consciousness. It is from non-action, nameless yet nothing unaccomplished, not the emptiness of emptiness, formless yet nothing unformed. Thus all ten thousand Dharmas gather, none of their forms unresponsive; not the great stillness of emptiness, no spirit unresponsive, no ancestor or sect, empty yet not void, the object of emptiness’s response. Permeating the profound Ten Directions, spread in the vast wilderness, this matter is all entrusted, no matter not entrusted, all meeting in one aim; therefore able to unify and save all beings, greatly expanded above the myriad forms, alone standing above myriad mechanisms, through countless kalpas and millennia, ever dwelling in the still realm of the Supreme True. The Great Dao is Limitless in its faintness; how could it be spoken of by form and speech, or discussed in its wondrous domain? But living beings have long slept, not perceiving the response, not understanding the transformation; so it led my master Golden Brightness, descending from the divine heavens. To preserve this kalpa assembly, the correct Dao descends to teach, like the light of a morning lamp, like the wondrous mirror of the Jade True newly responding. Able to make the divine and perfect wondrously aware, penetrating the Ten Directions, illuminating the three realms, and also opening the six paths, widely expanding the various heavens, shining among the multitude of saints. Not only the precious eternal vow wondrous treasure, but also forever the mother of myriad Dharmas. Thus obtaining eternal salvation from the sea of suffering in the final kalpa, truly depending on the utmost sincere hearts of living beings for refuge, their blessings immediately established. It may be said that the six perfections, four classes, and three illuminations all shine upon all directions, all reaching divine wisdom, penetrating hidden and manifest, with no barrier, the greatness of the three treasures is here flourishing. The Golden Standard Golden Brightness receiver is this, the number of the Red Brightness’s response. If taking its wondrous essence, it is never other. Truly examining nature’s suchness, who again has masters or friends to himself? Returning to unity, responding in number; it is not the wisdom of myself that can fathom the wondrous depth of the mystery sect. Having received the command of Golden Brightness, to criticize the Genealogy Record of the Three Sovereigns, dare one presume to view through a bamboo tube and annotate it? Therefore it is recorded to show those of the future movement and later learners and comrades.

Golden Supreme Jade Emperor said: At that time the Supreme Void Jade Heaven High Ancestor Void Emperor Dao Sovereign, the Unsurpassed Jade Clear Void Perfected, the Unsurpassed Nine Heavens Elder, and others,

Golden True said: These Three Perfected are all disciples of Golden Brightness Supreme Marvelous Entry into Stillness Scripture.

Each is commissioned by Golden Brightness to transmit the Three Sovereigns’ Jade Transmission Genealogy Record, establishing the wondrous chapter golden seal upper section jade scripture in one scroll, that is, the above is the brief of the Primordial Heavenly Exalted One’s presence. At that time the Heavenly Exalted One entrusted it to the Three Treasures Jade Emperor to manage the record, storing it in the Supreme Void Jade Heaven Heavenly Treasure Purple Radiance Golden Brilliance Flowing Bright Great Light Treasure Emperor Upper Palace, with the Jade Heaven Ten Directions Golden Morning Jade Boys each thirty-six, the Perfected constantly burn natural incense of a hundred harmonies and reverse life spirits, scattering the flowers of five-coloured flowing clouds and hundred treasures, guarding the Three Sovereigns’ Genealogy Record Jade Scripture. The celestial beings of the Ten Directions cultivating the supreme Dao and perfected person, if they encounter the bright movement and obtain the Three Sovereigns’ Genealogy Scripture, they should sit with the Three Treasures and treasure the record. This is indeed the true business of the supreme true marvel.

Golden True said: Those who hold the Jade Scripture should together with the Three Caves’ wondrous scriptures place it, offer respect and worship. Do not be negligent or filthy towards the Three Sovereigns. The Jade Morning Boys attending the scripture will report your offences to the Heavenly Treasure; the wind blade will arise and strike upon your body.

Golden Brightness said: Celestial beings who obtain my Dao may follow its method according to rank and order; they should plainly write the Genealogy Record Jade Scripture of the Three Sovereigns to which they respond. With a brocade coloured pouch they should contain the scripture, placing it together with the Three Caves’ scriptures for offering. If you have no place for the Three Caves’ scriptures, you may arrange a separate chamber as if for the Three Caves’ scriptures. Morning and evening burn incense and worship. At that time cultivate respect and reverence, never departing from the law; you must keep worship, never leave even for a moment. The Dao Eye of the Three Sovereigns will long be your mysterious mirror; your heart then will be moved and affect the Ten Directions, penetrate true reality, communicate wondrous stillness, descend flying truth, ascend the Jade Realm, enter the formless, receive long existence, embody the golden spirit. At this point the Jade Boys attend by your side, and the Dao is truly accomplished.

Golden True said: Those able to preserve respect and revere the Jade Scripture, all the great saints and heavenly spirits of the Ten Directions, as well as the officials and officials of the Three Realms, all come to guard and protect your door and courtyard, ever worshipping its text. The celestial true also descend thrice monthly to worship the Three Sovereigns’ Genealogy Record; much more so the ghosts and spirits guarding, the celestial beings attending, how should it not be revered and served?

Golden Brightness said: The Three Sovereigns are the Three Treasures. The Dao’s supreme marvel, their rank is limitless and unsurpassed, endless and immeasurable, without high or low, may be called limitless. Take heed, take most careful heed. I now strongly and sincerely assure you, so that you may be perfected herein. If you have no mysterious response of the Three Sovereigns, who then shall deliver you in the great stillness of vast silence?

Golden True said: This scripture of Golden Brightness has come from limitless kalpas, to deliver the celestial beings of the Ten Directions, the truly great saintly honored spirit. If not by the turning of the Dharma wheel, and none meets this, then so be it.

Genealogy Record of the Three Sovereigns of the Supreme Clarity
