# Precious Admonition of the Dipper Matron

With utmost sincerity I bow and submit my life. In the Western Heaven, in the land of India, amid the Great Radiant Light, there is the True Void, the Wondrous Aspect, the Law-King Master; the Supreme Mysterious Original Heavenly Mother presides. Where the golden light flashes, the sun and moon are hidden in their splendour. When the precious pestle revolves, spirits and demons lose their colours. Her manifest and spiritual traces are in the mortal world; she guards the holy chariot in Jambu (the world). When living beings are in distress and call upon her name, the Great Being hearkens and comes to relieve their suffering. Great is her compassion, great her vow; great the saint, great the mercy. The saintly virtue, a vast radiance, the Queen of Heaven, the Great Saint Marici of Heaven; the Perfect and Clear Dao Matron, the Heavenly Venerable.

With utmost sincerity I bow and submit my life. In Heaven above, the Asuras revolve with the sun; on earth, in urgent calamity, the flame arises. She ever travels before the sun and moon, alone standing in divine spirit within the Three Realms. Her majesty and splendour are radiant and brilliant; her wondrous aspect is perfect and harmonious. She receives and rescues all living beings, transcending all sufferings. Great is her compassion, great her vow; great the saint, great the mercy. The Great Emperor, Ancestor of the Thunder of the Nine Heavens; the Solar Emperor of the Sun Palace; the Lunar Sovereign, august Lord of the Moon Mansion; the Sacred Wisdom of Primordial Heaven, Dipper Mother; the Purple Radiance and Golden Venerable, Saintly Virtue Queen of Heaven; she saves all those in distress; the Great Emperor Marici of Heaven; the Perfect and Clear Dao Mother, the Heavenly Venerable.
