# Preface by the Author

In my youth, being orphaned and deprived of instruction, I wandered to Chengdu, where by good fortune I met Master Zhiyuan within the Temple of Clear Clouds. He taught me the orthodox principles, and imparted unto me the Great Way. Following him for twenty-eight years, I at length began to have a slight understanding of the profound principles, and gradually to comprehend the learning of nature and life. Master Zhiyuan journeyed in the Western Lands for many tens of years, yet I never once encountered him; oftentimes I reflected upon the kindness of his teachings, and not a day passed without remembrance. In the second year of the Xianfeng reign, obeying Master Zhiyuan’s command, I journeyed to survey the beauties of rivers and mountains. Setting forth from Shu, I traversed more than ten provinces, north and south, thereby strengthening my sinews and bones, and augmenting my courage and insight. Afterwards I entered the dust of the capital, hoping to remain a few years, that I might make a journey beyond the gates. Unexpectedly, sages and worthies from all quarters, mistakenly attracted by empty fame, came from a thousand li away to inquire after the Way. Being dull and my learning superficial, how could I be worthy to instruct others? Yet feeling the earnestness of these gentlemen’s intentions, how could I free myself from concern? Therefore, following the many instructions and encouragements of my Master, and the enlightenment gained through years of travel and reflection, I composed several volumes to aid those entering the門, as the Confucians now call the study of elementary instruction. These writings are shallow and crude, insufficient to provide a single gleam of refined elegance.

Having completed these books, I again pondered how the lineage of the Way has lost its thread, and now more than ever. Later scholars may have several texts yet forget their ancestry; this is the worry of the Daoists, and also the responsibility of my person. Hence I have recorded from the ancient patriarch Laozi down to recent Immortal Patriarchs their attainment of the Way, together with the circumstances of cultivating the Dao, in a work entitled The Transmission of the Attainment of the Eight Immortals. For the convenience of beginners, I have especially imitated the style of popular records, using the common vernacular. Since the lineage of the Way has declined, and many of the Daoist schools no longer understand the literary meaning, this work being popular in style, seeks therefore breadth rather than profundity. Yet, hastily composed, with editorial correction incomplete, and with journeys overseas, the investigation of facts may be imperfect, and errors are difficult to avoid. I await that later gentlemen may correct my dull mistakes and errors.

In the seventh year of the Tongzhi reign, by the Daoist Wugou at the White Cloud Temple west of the Capital.
