# Commentary on the Wonderful Scripture of the Spiritual Books of the Many Heavens for Delivering Life

The Scripture is named the Wonderful Scripture of the Spiritual Books of the Many Heavens for Delivering Life. The author is unknown; it probably originated in the Sui and Tang dynasties. The original text is found in the Zhengtong Daozang, section Dongzhen, category Yujue.

This Scripture of the Spiritual Books of the Many Heavens is employed to successively deliver life. For the multitude of beings increase in number and are moved by fanciful thoughts; the great deliverance begins from the original non-being. When the clouds of delusive thoughts scatter, the sun of wisdom immediately shines forth. Therefore the spirit concentrates upon the realm of intelligence; the transformations of the five domains bring about recognition and illumination of profound communication; the men of the ten directions become complete and pure. Hence the resonances of the Green Forest are stirred, the Golden Ridge sends forth light, the Southern Furnace refines its sound, and the Cold Court bathes in virtue. The Dharma Realm jointly displays the illumination of the Spiritual Books; therefore it is called the Spiritual Books of the Many Heavens. The Primordial Heavenly Worthy, with refined spiritual intelligence, produces the characters, universally implanting all the saints and the spirits of heaven. This is the Wonderful Scripture for Delivering Life. Life (ming 命) signifies fixity or determination. The life of sentient beings is fixed in three kinds: first, the life of present occurrences; second, the life of past karma; third, the life of the Way. The two lives of occurrences and karma obscure the life of the Way and cannot be manifested. Hence one is taught the Spiritual Books of the Many Heavens to deliver those two lives of occurrences and karma, causing them to return to the life of the Way. The life of occurrences is: the eye sees coloured things, the nose smells fragrance or stench, the ear hears sounds, the tongue knows sweetness or bitterness. Each of the six roots has its fixed objects, and cannot attain to profound use; thus it is called the life of occurrences. The life of karma is: the past birth’s learning and the present birth’s cleverness; if in the past birth there was no learning, in this birth there is ignorance; if in the past birth there was much anger, in this birth there will be ugliness. All retributions of form, length, shortness, largeness, and smallness are fixed by former karma, and cannot be changed in this life; this is called the life of karma. These two lives of occurrences and karma are all false and delusive creations, thus they cover and obscure the true nature—the life of the Way. Since these lives of occurrences and karma are false and delusive, they may be removed and dispatched. If one cultivates and learns the Spiritual Books of the Saints, one will plant spiritual illumination, and delusive thoughts will perish as a bright lamp lights up darkness, turning darkness itself into light. Now the spiritual wisdom is bright, and the lives of occurrences and karma are treated as the Way; the originally fixed life of the Way has never been changed. This Wonderful Scripture causes the lives of occurrences and karma to be delivered and made wondrous, hence it is called the Wonderful Scripture for Delivering Life.

This volume is broadly divided into three parts. The first chapter is the Preface, explaining the origin of the Dharma, questioning the movement of the false and constant, and always revealing the extreme bliss as the original being. The second, from the Primordial, is the chapter of Changle’s True Scripture, displaying the transformation of the five earths and illuminating the two fundamental methods of original colour. The third and final chapter expounds the purpose of the Scripture and demonstrates its transmission.

The Preface itself is divided into three. The first preface sets forth the reason for the reappearance of the Dharma King; the second reveals the features of blessing and retribution; the third makes clear the public’s personal acceptance and realization.

At the time of the Primordial Heavenly Worthy, it was the era of the Kaicheng reign. In the Great Blessing Hall kingdom, that is, the place where the Dao Lord dwells in the capital city, Changle’s abode. He spoke this to the great holy spirits of the many heavens. The Primordial Heavenly Worthy, together with the highest perfected great saints of the heavens, travelled here, and thus emitted the Spiritual Books to give to the Dao Lord. The Great Blessing Hall kingdom had already combined the teaching of the Dao Lord’s former karmic life. The Changle abode produced the false constant and the constant, each with three scriptures. The first is the constant of binding the body without aging; the second holds to the teaching of birth and understanding, binding our joy as constant; the third is the constant of being born in the Blessing Hall kingdom, without destruction. All are ignorant of the original source and origin, and also unaware of the remaining power in accord with the extreme. Moreover they sit in the middle of the fruit of blessing, hence are called the constant of the Heavenly Worthy. Now the Primordial issues two questions concerning the movement of the false and constant, to summon the Dao Lord. He recounts the answers that he has seen, truly exposing the ignorance of the false and constant about beginning and end. Then the Primordial, smiling, emits five-coloured light from his mouth, which he forthwith expels, causing the teaching of the Spiritual Books’ true characters, the power of the light of wisdom, to illuminate and extinguish all the delusions of false and constant, and all the features of the fruit of blessing. Thus the Dao Lord asks, and the Primordial replies. This is the true text, the force like a staff moving a wheel; thus it is known that there is a limit to the utmost, and thence comes impermanence. Formerly the force’s resonance was deep and widespread in the ten directions, thus this land’s men and women know the characters, but not those of other lands. This is the reason why the former teaching is now and not in the future, and why it is for other lands. Now the Primordial speaks the ten parts of the Spiritual Books’ wonderful scriptures to the Dao Lord, and delivers the heavenly beings of the ten directions. At this time the Dao Lord and all were joyful.

Within the Changle abode of the Primordial Heavenly Worthy are four chapters, comprising the True Scripture, the text divided into two.

The first clarifies the transformation of the five earths and directions, producing the benefit of blessings so as to enter the constant.

The second chapter, the Heavenly Worthy informs the Supreme Dao Lord, under the Dragon Han period, explaining the true purpose of spiritual transformation in delivering life to confirm the true constant. This text is divided into three parts.

The first enumerates the beginning and end of the five directions, arising and transforming in growth and decline of blessing, hence there is a difference between purity and defilement, pain and pleasure.

The second informs the Dao Lord of the chapter of the Five Elders, clarifying the Five Elders’ transformation of the ten directions, sharing the same root with the Primordial, thus succeeding the holy mandate and causing the multitude to esteem and accept.

The third, the Heavenly Worthy accomplishes the chapter of the five directions, explaining the power and use, showing the spiritual fire’s assembly, clarifying beginning and end. It may be arranged according to the seven directions, exemplified in three parts.

The first presents the teaching of true constancy at present, hence enumerating the multitude of innocent beings, even the kingdoms of false and constant emperors.

The second is the Primordial’s instruction below, issuing the question of the movement of false and constant, discarding attachment to former teaching as false delusion, joyously overturning appearances, to summon the self-manifest answers.

The third declares ignorance and uncertainty below, clarifying diligence in making request, hence the Primordial replies to this feature, that former teachings have residual power, and those who reckon are false. Thus there is the display of impermanence after my past, and the present teaching of the constant emperor is respectfully received. Beginning in this land, that is the central land; the central land is the heart. When the heart is pure, the eyes, ears, nose, and tongue are pure; hence the teaching begins in the central direction and completes the four heavens.

Within the Changle abode of the Primordial Heavenly Worthy are these four chapters. Below, the first clearly states the Primordial’s role as Mother of Transformation, accomplishing the central Dao Lord’s vehicle. The Primordial completes the Dao Lord’s general control over the ten directions to the end, causing life to manifest its great meaning, broadly encompassing all directions; hence the four directions are briefly revealed and the rest may be understood. These four chapters exemplify three meanings. First, they all enumerate the states of nations achieving the utmost wonder and the comrades acting in common, entering their kingdoms, and seeing the changes in the world, the movement of false and constant, causing doubt to arise. Hence there are two kinds of questions about the River Han. One asks whether one can learn to be an immortal; the other asks what strange methods there are. This causes one to recount the fruits of what one has certified. Not knowing that this is false and constant, one describes what one has seen and certified to simplify the Primordial. Second, the Primordial Heavenly Worthy informs the Blue Emperor below, revealing the original cause and condition. At the time of the past Dragon Han year, I once issued the true characters of the Spiritual Books to deliver men here in this land; the remaining power thus caused the appearances of affairs to be together. After my past, I showed the force of blessing and retribution, which must have its limit of time, so that one may advance in cultivation to deliver life and change false and constant. Third, the emperor and the multitude understand and accept to practise; hence it is said that the Blue Emperor bows his head and submissively receives the mandate, and all the saints of one assembly are joyful. Among these chapters, the text rises and falls, three chapters somewhat resembling one another, with various fruits to be certified and strange appearances of affairs. Some have green forest purple characters, some red fruit white rings, some cold pools and spiritual marshes; all are the formation of the remaining power of true characters. To certify, it is false and constant. In the Changle abode is spoken the spiritual treasure true characters issuing the Dharma to deliver men, beginning in this land. At this time the power of compassion and transformation prevails, pervading the ten directions of the boundless world. The highest true saints, flying heavenly divine kings, and wondrously acting perfect men all meet at once, as do the multitude of beings in the evil paths of the boundless world. Hence the text below says: the four directions’ border paths. Causing the great earth to all change into melting gold poured upon the land, the border paths become jade, lapis lazuli, and treasure ornaments. This shows impermanence in change to reveal constancy; the Dharma nature does not compete with the true; saints and sages have no difference in the Way. Therefore the concerned ferries are not the same, yet the secret agreement is truly one. First within binding the constant, the teaching of impermanence is spoken; afterwards showing the impermanent country to reveal the constant. First within binding the constant, that is, what the various emperors have certified and seen as not aging, and the various wondrous appearances and joys, etc. Showing the teaching of impermanence, that is seeing the true characters in the light. Showing the impermanent earth, that is the melted gold poured upon the land. The true character text appears later in four verses; these accord with the former central land as the five texts.

The Primordial Heavenly Worthy informs the Supreme Dao Lord: this is the conclusion, explanation, transmission, and delivery of the multitude of saints’ spiritual treasure true characters. The issuance of Dharma and delivery are all the lineages of the saints and sages, the conditions never ceasing. Now the Scripture is recorded as issuing the Heavenly Worthy’s spiritual wisdom as spiritual treasure true characters, to be given to the Dao Lord, who gives them to the Five Elders Emperors, each receiving one transmission, to nourish and pacify the beings of the five directions, so that they do not encounter sorrow and suffering, nor undergo the eight hardships, but only have the myriad wonderful sounds, meeting age after age, the true characters never ceasing. Taking advantage of the force to injure the border earths and four directions, where blessing and virtue do not reach, the true characters are unseen, the Dharma sounds unheard, life and death are left to chance, falling into evil roots, greatly lamentable. This reveals evil karma to exhort action; hence it says that the Dharma teaching should be widely opened and extended to deliver the many heavens, so that these mixed nations may all return their hearts. The text below says that those of other countries and different regions, where blessing and virtue do not reach and the Scripture and teaching are not seen, naturally tread the evil path. The Heavenly Worthy accomplishes the lands of the five directions; this chapter’s conclusion and explanation of the true characters not only accomplish the five directions, but also deliver the ten directions’ all people, all receiving the bright teaching. From beginning to end this chapter is none but lively and joyous, explaining that respect for the teaching brings benefit, and that thereby the world’s lives and longevity are delivered and prolonged. From this time men and women all return their lives to the Heavenly Worthy, clearly showing that within binding the constant, the teaching of impermanence is unfolded; hence there arises the refining of the fire essence.

The Primordial Heavenly Worthy informs the Supreme Dao Lord the Dragon Han chapter, the True Scripture divided into two; this is the second. This text is in four parts.

The first chapter shows the original being of sentient beings, stating that the false and constant say impermanence, showing the provisional teaching, taking its benefit, hence it is called long and far-reaching.

The second chapter of travelling and seeing shows extinction and spiritual power as true wisdom, each offering treasure to reveal constancy. Afterwards it mentions non-acceptance and defiled conditions still obtaining.

The third chapter of thorough observation briefly distinguishes provisional and actual, and afterwards there is the superiority and inferiority of constancy and impermanence.

The fourth enumerates the four directions’ delivery of life into true constancy in a verse, reciting this to clarify the Primordial’s demonstration to the Dao Lord of the spiritual treasure’s difficulty to hear.

The Primordial informs the Dragon Han, that from the time of the Kaicheng reign the spiritual treasure text began to be opened and transmitted. From the time of Dragon Han onward, it successively speaks of the cause and condition for the five kalpas’ arising and ending. It also issues the Heavenly Worthy’s various titles and the persons who arise in due time. The present time of Dragon Han is the former Dragon Han; Long Han’s first year is the latter Dragon Han; the former Dragon Han ended. The text says: after my past, heaven and earth were destroyed, becoming wind, marsh, cave, and void, called Yan Kang, the great kalpa. Yan means long; Kang means peaceful. Within the long peace, facing the five kalpas’ later Dragon Han formation, the present text is not issued, but directly issued up to Chi Ming and Kaicheng, the affair of the five kalpas. The five kalpas are: the former Dragon Han, next Yan Kang, then the latter Dragon Han, next Chi Ming, then Kaicheng, these are the five. Within Kaicheng, there is also the Supreme Emperor. The Supreme Emperor is the Dao Lord practising transformation as teacher, facing the supreme ultimate and various truths, explaining the Primordial Heavenly Worthy as the transformation master, issuing the Dharma to the Dao Lord. Within this text, the former Dragon Han Primordial issued his title, formless and constantly existent, beginning with the three images of heaven and earth and sun and moon, with men and women but without ritual and law; I used the Dao’s transformation to explain, yet the true characters were not issued. After my past, destruction came as Yan Kang; the latter Dragon Han formed; up to Chi Ming, heaven and earth were restored, people were fully complete, and so rode the former Dragon Han karma. I again issued in the world, titled the Nameless Sovereign, with the spiritual treasure Dharma to teach and deliver the many heavenly beings, yet the true characters were not issued. At that time men and women rode the good desires of former karmic bodies to admire and serve. After my past, heaven and earth again were destroyed, dark and gloomy, that is the later Yan Kang. The three breaths were in chaos, driven by great winds; the multitude of beings’ souls and spirits rode the movement to be born in the upper realm, where the wind wheel shields them. Up to the Kaicheng period, I again issued in the world, titled the Primordial Heavenly Worthy, first issuing the spiritual treasure true characters. Brightening the sun, moon, stars, the four seasons, and five elements, thus completion of birth was attained. In the beginning of the Blue Heaven, I was titled the Primordial Heavenly Worthy, first producing the true characters, opening the Dharma teaching, accomplishing the many heavens and Dao Lords, issuing the red books of true characters for the many heavens and their spiritual books. By this it is known that the people of the many heavens, at the time of Kaicheng, having long awaited the true characters by cause and condition, could finally hear them. Men and women of pure simplicity, tying strings and acting, are due to riding the karma of the former kalpa; thus they encounter the flowing and evolving Dharma sounds, and the multitude naturally return their hearts and gradually enter the Dharma gate.

At this time the Primordial Heavenly Worthy, this chapter showing impermanence to reveal constancy. Hence the Heavenly Worthy divides his form into millions, existing everywhere simultaneously; this is the time of the Kaicheng teaching. When the teaching ended, he wished for the future multitude to rely on the teaching to understand and practise it as constant. Therefore, the Primordial Heavenly Worthy travelled to the Western River Ruoshui, emitting five-coloured light, universally illuminating the many heavens and the border lands of the four directions. All clearly saw the light, reaching as if to a united place, showing the signs of extinction to break the delusion of attachment to teaching and understanding, and to proclaim the meaning below. Hence there are millions of divided forms existing everywhere simultaneously; these are transformation bodies. The Dharma body and transformation body do not issue books; the living body issues books to deliver men; these are also called the true and responsive two bodies. The teaching is issued by books, completing scriptures to deliver men. The Dharma body may also be called formless and constantly existent; the transformation body may be called the Primordial living body; the coloured body may be called the Primordial Five Elders, or the Supreme Dao Lord. These four names include all bodies, though they number in the hundreds of millions, they never go beyond these four. Whether male or female, all universally see the Primordial Heavenly Worthy as if at the same place as their own body; this is divine power not shared. If shared, there must be two teachings that may be called shared; not so with the united place: now the united place is not sharing. Therefore it is said that wherever one is, whether old or young, male or female, all go to bow to the Heavenly Worthy, in accord with their land, and from their mouths issue the Five Chapters of the Spiritual Treasure’s true characters. This is thus the speech of the Spiritual Treasure united with the Heavenly Worthy, and so is not shared.

Beneath the brilliant radiance, the extensive explanation of the transmission and teaching of affairs is given: cinnabar writings, iron edicts, gold and silver, filling a country. The Heavenly Worthy accepts the Dharma precepts and wonderful scriptures. The Heavenly Worthy at a single time bestows both wealth and Dharma, all completely pervading. Those who enter the Dharma gate initially obtain a lifespan of thirty-six thousand years. At the first year of the Supreme Emperor, that is, halfway through the Kaicheng kalpa, this is the attachment to traces that has long been slighted, giving rise to excessive faults, without self-awareness: some kill life, indulge in licentious worship, run wild in lustful desire, and so are born into evil paths, enduring all sufferings. This is the present time. This reveals faults to show that faults should be amended; hence the text says: now this Scripture is spoken for future lives, so as to deliver those who may be delivered. The precepts exhort those with mind to receive carefully; hence the Dao Lord receives the mandate.

The Primordial Heavenly Worthy says, “I have thoroughly observed the many heavens.” This chapter concludes and recites the Spiritual Treasure true characters, most respected and most precious, exhorting that later generations must respect them. The text enumerates my observations of the many heavens, from countless kalpas past until today, including the highest heavens where the Way has been attained by great sages and gods, and the countless and boundless, but none who attain the Way fail to be accomplished through the Spiritual Treasure true characters. Next it views below the Southern Hills Vermilion Palace, extensively explaining the benefits derived from the Spiritual Treasure person, hence it says this Scripture is respected and wonderful, delivering men without limit. From the great kalpa’s transition it enumerates the many scriptures destroyed by great calamity, only this Scripture alone remaining. Among all the miscellaneous Dharma teachings, it lists the names of the scriptures lost in the calamity, none remaining or transmitted. Up to the Jade Pure Supreme Dao, it lists the names of scriptures which are not lost, and shows their places of return; this is the Great Luo. Below the officer of cultivation it rejoices at the auspicious power and exhorts cultivation to obtain benefits, that the line of good causal conditions will never cease.

The title is again the true form of the Spiritual Books, consisting of one volume divided into four chapters, all received, sung, and recited by the many heavens and many perfect saints, harmonizing form, soul, spirit nature, and spirituality, to deliver their lives. Each of the four chapters contains three sections. First, stating the origin of the Spiritual Books in delivering life; second, listing the verses of the Spiritual Books; third, a long concluding chapter of verses, describing those who are sealed and rewarded to guard and those who recite and obtain benefit, and the seven ancestors rejoicing together.

The East Flower emits the spiritual wind; the West Palace harmonizes the melodious sound. The Primordial in the East Flower Palace expounds and speaks the teaching of the spiritual wind, so that the perfect man of the West Palace listens, receives, and understands; thus they combine and harmonize to form the melodious and precious jade sound. Without the cause and condition of teaching opposing each other, receiving the melodious jade sound would not arise. Now the two schools of the master’s disciples receive; hence it is said that the two breaths combine the void and the cavity, in the great void is born the heart; the two add wisdom and understanding combined; in the cavity is formed the sound, and the disciple’s heart of wisdom and understanding arises in the great void body, obtaining the Spiritual Books unfolded in long strips, which are unfolded as teaching, thus forming the treasured text of blue-green forest. The phoenix sings to the sound reaching heaven; the Primordial emits the spiritual wind, not only harmonizing with the West Palace, but also the divine phoenix’s song. The sound of the spiritual chapter pervades throughout the world, harmonizing with the six seasons and responding to the eight solar terms, chanting and communicating the true nature. Above there is the child delivering life; on the Spiritual Treasure text is the child delivering life, removing the heavy darkness of night, shining spiritual illumination and extinguishing long gloom, preserving the form through countless kalpas, using preservation of the form for the use of the Way. Use for the Way’s form, the form endures long; hence it is said to be remote and untraceable. A long record of undying years. Record is a name. The form and name both make for immortality, remote and long-lasting, the undying years. This rises and falls with the kalpa’s movement. The sun and moon shine upon the spiritual soul. The spiritual soul is like the sun and moon’s illumination, having no bright or dark constant light, yet like the revolving Compass Star turning southeast without ceasing. The divine illumination is like the sun; all the stars fall from their forms and shadows; hence it is said that the nine stars fall from their forms and shadows. Nine is the number of directions; why specify the Big Dipper’s nine stars? All stars fall likewise. The treasured splendour produces the five hearts. The Spiritual Treasure characters are treasures fallen, naturally producing the five hearts of man. The five hearts are called metal, wood, water, fire, and earth, not attacking one another, all the same true nature. There is an undying spirit, in accord with my cinnabar gold. The spirit and I are in accord; the true Way’s cinnabar shines forth, like the adamant’s firmness and indestructibility. The red books examine refined qi; the jade secrets are wondrously profound. The Spiritual Books characters, the jade chapters, and red books, the jade secrets are clearly understood, examining and gathering the essence and qi of men, reaching the wondrous Way. This day at the Vermilion Palace there is a record and book, which evil spirits cannot invade.

Crimson clouds and emerald jade in the void; the spiritual wind brushes the Supreme Subtle. This is the Primordial issuing the Southern Spiritual Book true characters. Jade Void is the title of the Heavenly Worthy. Crimson clouds form the characters, emerald beauty issuing from the Jade Void’s mouth, as spiritual spirits; the wind teaching fans and brushes the sound of the Supreme Subtle, and obtains the vast removal of the six darks, remote and issuing the radiance of wisdom. The multitude rides the light and scene of my sun of wisdom, shaking the reins and riding smoothly, returning into the heavenly principle, hence it is called following heaven and returning. There is naturally the spiritual wisdom red child, illuminating and removing the darkness of the spiritual night, the illumination of the profound yang, refining and removing radiance and brightness. Brightness and radiance form the jade chapters, possessed of power, able to deliver men’s years of life; hence chanting the spiritual chapters produces men’s spiritual wisdom, that is the spiritual song of the five spirits opening. The spiritual spirits open to enlightenment, naturally gaining long soul without ceasing, combining with light and scene, one thought entering the nine enclosures. The nine enclosures are the nine heavenly palaces of the Primordial. When the soul enters the nine enclosures, it obtains the term of countless kalpas travelling afar, and thus has an unending lifespan. Hence it is said that the splendid life does not wither or decline. The flying heavens open heavy gates. The Primordial commands the flying heavenly spirits to unfold and explain the heavy profound gates; the Southern Palace perfect men clearly see the darkness, forming the wise mechanism and clearly manifesting. The wise mechanism clearly manifesting is the Vermilion Palace’s palace fixing the delivery of life, hence it is called the crimson register. The name of the register is fixed, thus the spirit and form fly by themselves. The blessing flows to the seven ancestors; hence it is said the seven ancestors were born above heaven, their blessing and virtue lofty and grand. Revolving in the void is the soul. Turning the Spiritual Books’ Dharma wheel, transforming and gathering the soul and spirit in the void, thus able to open my nine profound dark gates. The spirit rides this to enlightenment; hence it is said that the night scene unfolds the morning sun, as the morning sun reveals the fluttering, riding the spiritual wisdom to revolve and return to the way of long life.

The Kun Terrace produces melodious sound. This is the Primordial in the Western Kun Terrace, issuing the Spiritual Books to form sound, with melodious jade tones, hence the jade purity adds ease and surpassing, clearly dispelling the darkness of the nine netherworlds. There is the treasured chapter, filling the great void’s Way, treading the true colour to enter the formless. Brocade clouds, emerald cinnabar sun, the Spiritual Books’ Dharma cloud wisdom arises like brocade clouds and emerald beauty, shining upon the cinnabar sun, also named the perfect splendour chasing the moon, growing and shining brightly. It is blended with natural black wisdom, vast and obtaining the nine directions’ distant purity. The pure and simple man has six wisdoms, pure and completing Brahman conduct; the five spirits summon themselves to the high spirit. The crimson dwelling is the peaceful dwelling. The five king spirits peacefully reside in the crimson dwelling, brightly shining and accomplished in the red child, able to endure and last, never withering for countless kalpas. Constantly abiding is the Good-Life Lord. This is the title of the transformation master in the Kun Terrace. The Constantly Abiding Good-Life Lord, combined with the Supreme One Lord, jointly holds the human sovereign’s peaceful mandate register, hence it says preserving life and delivering talismanic registers, refining the soul’s golden splendour imperial court. Life is in the golden splendour court, naturally returning to immortal non-being, the soul and spirit fluttering and riding the movement of Dharma wisdom, producing wisdom and talent. The seven mysteries all enter the South Palace of good life; decayed bodies again obtain fresh and pure honour and splendour. Long singing joyfully of the body, sitting together upon floating clouds, tranquil and at ease in play, riding the floating clouds’ green canopy carriage, wandering and enjoying beyond the Great Luo. The great demons of the three realms dare not lightly violate this.

Flying steps enter the Northern Purity, able to ride the Spiritual Books of the North, adding the mysterious heaven of the five, thus obtaining delivery of life, stepping into the Northern Purity’s view. Holding the true lineage and summoning it, receiving the warm wisdom of the Upper Origin, riding this light and scene, to look upon the platform of the mysterious Way, the palaces on all four sides spontaneously produce brocade clouds of cultivation and raising. Within the palace is the spiritual child who gathers longevity and delivers life, titled the Supreme One Emperor Lord, issuing Dharma within the palace, summoning and gathering the saints of the ten directions to assemble, raising light covers, robes filling the empty realm, how multitudinous! The ten directions all long hold the delivery registers of the nine netherworlds, annotating the Golden Register and Red Book texts, and so grasp and broadcast around the golden splendour palace court, named the fluttering delivery broadcasts. Also raising the green canopy riding the wind to return, and having the cinnabar dawn Dharma cloud realm, brushing and raising the spiritual chariot of correct wisdom, to build for me the palace of the Upper Origin, drawing out my life register, issuing the nine nights’ gates, delivering my life book to the South Palace Vermilion Ridge’s gate, longevity obtained and long preserved for countless kalpas. The staying spirit resides in the splendid crimson mansion, the palace of the red child, brightly illuminating the three passes and five viscera, all naturally bright and pure; hence the form receives immortal qi, naturally producing treasured soul. Thus the blessing flows to the seven ancestors delivering the South Palace, the door of blessing and longevity for the world’s births. This delivers the lives of three generations.

The Primordial Heavenly Worthy says that the right four chapters, this one chapter concludes the one volume of four chapters, made to flow and circulate by the many heavens and many perfect sages’ reception and enlightenment. The many heavens’ highest saints and perfect men, jade maidens below, recount singing, reciting, believing, receiving benefits, the lives of men and women in future births, hearts and movements returning. Below it recounts those of doubting and opposing persons, licentious and wanton, jealous and surpassing themselves, hence the myriad evils arise. After my past, they entered into the five hells of suffering. This is shown below; it is also to make clear that faults should be amended, hence the mandate was received and departed.

The Commentary on the Wonderful Scripture of the Spiritual Books of the Many Heavens for Delivering Life concludes.
