# The Master Zhang Ziyang Reading the Text of the Cantong Qi

The wondrous use of the Great Elixir governs Heaven and Earth; Heaven and Earth revolve, and the Five Phases are apportioned. When the Five Phases follow their order, the constant Way is that there is birth and there is death; when the Five Phases are reversed, the Elixir Body is ever spiritual, ever abiding. From one comes the measureless and formless essence; the Two Modes arise from the one to open the root. The Four Phenomena do not depart from the Two Substances; the Eight Trigrams interrelate as parent and child. All phenomena are born in change and movement; therein are divided fortune and misfortune, regret and blame. The common people use them daily without knowing; the sages are able to trace them to their origin.

Turning then to the subtlety of the Way of Change, it exhausts the principle of Heaven and Earth; thus it entrusts images to this writing. When negation and affirmation interchange, Yin and Yang either ascend or descend; when difficulty and ignorance arise, motion and rest are at morning and at evening. Kan and Li are male and female, water and fire; Zhen and Dui are the dragon and tiger, the corporeal soul and the ethereal soul. To keep to the center is the Yellow Robe of primal good fortune; to meet with arrogance is to have no place and no honour. Not having been careful of the beginning and end of all things, again one encounters the luminous return of the two breaths. The moon wanes and waxes, corresponding to the decline and flourishing of the spirit; the sun rises and sets, combining the cold and warmth of honour and defence. Having established the root words to make clear the images, having obtained the images one then forgets the words. Still one sets images to point to the meaning; when the true meaning is realised, the images are cast aside. The enlightened are simple and easy; the deluded are more confused and more complicated. Therefore, the cultivators of the True who read the Cantong Qi do not dwell upon being bound by images and attached to words.
