# Li Zhen-guo of Wenzhou Conducts an Elongation-of-Life Rite for His Mother, with Evidential Results

Li Zhen-guo of Wenzhou was a man of loyalty, sincerity, and filial piety. Fond of the mysterious learning, he frequently went to the Xuan Zhen Temple at Wenzhou to burn incense, keeping close intercourse with the Daoist priest Chen Zonglong of the said temple. In the early spring of the year 2010, his mother was suddenly taken ill. She went to the hospital for examination, and it was found that she suffered from acute hemorrhage of the digestive tract. She was then admitted for observation, and the whole family waited upon her with decoctions of medicine, not daring to be absent.

We all know that acute hemorrhage of the digestive tract is a disease often fatal. Li Zhen-guo’s heart was as if on fire. On one hand he sought acquaintances and connections, hoping that the hospital might exert its utmost efforts in treatment, so as not to delay the disease; on the other hand he called the Daoist Chen of Xuan Zhen, hoping to rely on the power of spirits and gods to preserve his mother’s life. The community of Daoists at Xuan Zhen Temple accordingly established within the temple a Daoist altar for the preservation and prolongation of life. The multitude were devout and bowed their heads in worship. They prayed to the Star Lord to confer great and mighty splendour, beseeching for the elder lady Li the gift of prolonged years.

Meanwhile at the hospital, the elder lady Li suffered intolerable pain, and with trembling voice told Li Zhen-guo, “I am so very ill.” Her vital signs of heart-beat and breathing were already exceedingly faint. On the following day, the elder lady said, “Last night I dreamed that some one came, holding a chain by which I was bound and led away. We went for a long way. Around all was dark and black, the road was unclear. Occasionally I could hear weeping, which was very frightening. The road was uneven, full of pits and hollows, and there was water. Suddenly a light shone from above downwards, and an old man with white beard said to the one who escorted me, ‘The Star Lord of the Northern Dipper has decreed: this woman’s earthly life is not yet finished; she ought to be returned to the world of the living.’ And then I awoke.” The elder lady Li is still now in Wenzhou, and her family to this day give thanks for the grace of the Northern Dipper.

In gratitude for the Star Lord’s favour in prolonging her life, the elder lady caused a statue of the Purple Tenuity Great Emperor to be made for Xuan Zhen Temple; on each monthly period of the Dipper she comes to the temple to offer worship to the Dipper.
