# The True Story of Wu Daoyou's Disrespect to his Master

Wu Daoyou was a man of the Northeast. The Northeast is wont to produce many great immortals. Wu originally studied the arts of the sorcerer; afterwards he studied the Esoteric Buddhism; afterwards again he changed to the practice of the Daoist methods. He had many teachers and masters, but was not willing to follow any master in learning. Much of his practice of the Daoist methods came from the internet. He knew not the written certificates of approval, much less such things as the Yu-step and hand-seals. At times he would complain to his friends, saying, “My master knows nothing, and though he knows, he is unwilling to teach me.” When he performed the ritual, if there was no ritual book, he searched on the internet, and taking an iPad he mounted the altar. Often on the internet he would quarrel with others, calling this man a cheat, that man knowing nothing, and saying that they had accumulated boundless sins. Such absurdities were countless.

Wu Daoyou had a senior fellow disciple, somewhat older, a man of honest and sincere character. He once admonished Wu Daoyou, saying, “The Daoist methods are precious. In former times, when one sought a master to learn the Dao, one must follow the master at least three years, day and night attending upon the master’s eating and drinking and daily habits, to train the mind and character. Perhaps bearing gold and treasures as a token, then the master would consent to teach. When transmitting the methods, the master would make an oath before Heaven, Earth, and the Three Officials; it was no trifling matter. You are in the Northeast, but your master is in the South. How many times have you met your master? What have you done for your master? Yet you demand that your master teach you this and that. What merit have you?”

Wu hearing this thought it very reasonable, but yet in his heart his spirit was not appeased. From that time his words of complaint were fewer. Once, when he mounted the altar, his cap fell by accident to the ground, and from then he was stricken with a grievous illness. On his sickbed, half asleep and half awake, he seemed to see an official come and say to him, “You have not obtained true transmission from the master, but presumptuously wear the robes and cap; the Thunder Office is angry with you; but for the blessing of your sect, you would long since have been punished.”

The Dao has three treasures—“Dao, Scripture, and Master.” And the Dao cannot be spoken, but depends on the true master for transmission. A master is sometimes but an ordinary Taoist sweeping the floor, or a temple attendant, or a recluse in the country performing rites of repentance. He has no power, and no social rank. But once one has knocked the head in reverence to the master, from that time he is a scion of the Dharma’s lineage. No matter how humble the master, he represents the transmission of the Daoist line, which for thousands of years has been preserved. Such a master ought to be reverenced with respect.
