# The Verification of the Azure Dragon Lord of Huzhou

At the Kaiyuan Temple in Huzhou (now Huzhou City in Zhejiang), there is a statue venerating the Azure Dragon Lord, the workmanship of which is exquisitely surpassing, ranking foremost in the southern regions. It is said by all that this was wrought by the most skilled artisans of the realm in the time of the Tang Emperor Minghuang. It is most efficacious. Scholars and common folk alike, afflicted with suffering, who go to entreat, there is none for whom the prayer is not answered.

Before the Kaiyuan Temple, facing the great street, there stood a locust tree, the girth of its trunk exceeding one chi, but its branches and bole were all withered. The magistrate of Wucheng County commanded that this withered tree be cut down. That night he dreamed that the Azure Dragon Lord spoke to him, saying: "This is the locust tree before my courtyard. Now to cause it to die and be restored to life will require but a little more than a month, after which it shall flourish with branches and leaves." The magistrate pondered, "How could it be that he would thus disclose it to me?" Yet he took it to be a mere chance. The next day the magistrate ordered the workmen to continue cutting the tree. Each time a stroke of the axe fell upon it, the magistrate felt a pain throughout his body. Suddenly, beneath the Azure Dragon Lord’s seat, a great serpent crawled forth. The workmen were sorely terrified, and dropping their tools, they all fled.

After some time, the magistrate grew a festering sore upon his person, which caused him pain ceaselessly by night and day. Only then did he know that it was the Azure Dragon Lord’s punishment, out of love for the locust tree. Though medicine was applied to the sore, the pain would not cease. Afterwards, when crushed green onions were applied to the place where the tree had been cut, the sore began to mend somewhat. After more than a year, the wound of the locust tree was healed, and the magistrate’s sore was also cured. The branches and leaves of this tree too, having died, were restored to life, and the foliage grew more luxuriantly than before. From that time forth, the incense offerings to the Azure Dragon Lord were flourishing, uninterrupted from morn to eve.
