# The Response to Merit from Brother Jiang of Hubei in Donating to the Printing of the Scriptures

Jiang Yuhan, a man of Huangshi in Hubei, one day went to a Taoist temple to burn incense, and chatted with the Taoist priest of the temple. The priest said, 'I observe between your brows a black vapour; I fear that on the morrow there will be a disaster of bloodshed.' Jiang Yuhan said, 'Then tomorrow I shall remain at home, and go not forth.'

On the morrow, Jiang Yuhan telephoned the priest, saying, 'Reverend, all is lost: a relative of mine has died, and I must go abroad today to attend the funeral. What shall I do? Canst thou help to devise a means to avert the misfortune?'

At that time the priest was somewhat busy, and said, 'Among all methods, burning incense holds the primacy. Of all meritorious deeds, the printing of the scriptures is the most weighty. Why not then donate money to the printing of the scriptures?' Accordingly, Jiang Yuhan quickly remitted one hundred yuan to the priest, to aid in printing the scriptures; the priest then entered his name in the register.

Upon his return, Jiang Yuhan went to the temple and reported to the priest, saying, 'At about two or three in the afternoon I felt exceedingly heavy-headed, and saw things double. Then I was driving, and felt as if someone was pulling at me, urging me to be more alert. Afterwards, the car before me was involved in an accident; but I was but a centimetre from colliding with it. When I returned in the evening, I drove alone, and nothing befell me.'

The Iron-Crown Taoist says: 'The Treatise on Response declares, "If one has a mind to do good, though the good be not yet done, auspicious spirits accompany it; if one has a mind to do evil, though the evil be not yet done, inauspicious spirits attend it."' By printing the scriptures and making their images, and by promoting the Taoist teaching, the merit is profound. The Three Officials examine and record these good deeds. Where merit is great, it can dispel calamities and procure blessings in the present life, and even lead one to immortality and attainment of the Tao. Jiang Yuhan, according to his fate, ought to have suffered a disaster of bloodshed; yet by promptly donating one hundred yuan to print the Taoist scriptures, he was still able to avoid disaster. Much more so, then, should we in ordinary times accumulate virtue and do good, reverently bestow charitable gifts, print and circulate the scriptures, and respectfully uphold the Three Treasures: the merit of these acts is still greater, and surely the Patriarchs will protect us, granting great blessings.
