# The Efficacy of Repeated Invocation of the Thunder Revered One by Chen Lihua of Huzhou

Chen Lihua was a native of Huzhou in Zhejiang. Every day on his way to and from his work, at a turning of the road, there stood a small temple. It was a place where the villagers of the locality offered worship to the local spirit, and ordinarily there was little incense burned there.

One night, as Chen Lihua rode his electric bicycle past this place, he nearly ran into a child; fortunately, there was alarm without harm. On the following day, the same thing occurred, and he knocked down a middle-aged man. Happily, no great injury was done, but Chen Lihua paid the man several hundred coins. Chen Lihua found this strange, and that night he dreamt of a man who smiled upon him in a manner most uncanny.

Feeling the matter to be unusual, Chen Lihua had recourse to a relative of his who was a devout believer in the Tao, a Taoist priest residing in Wenzhou. He inquired of this relative what the matter might be. The priest said, 'At the crossroads, in a dilapidated temple, many evil spirits find their abode. You may burn some paper offerings there to send them away.' Chen Lihua asked, 'If I should meet with this again hereafter, what shall I do?' The priest replied, 'In Taoism there is a deity, compassionate and resolute, supremely holy and merciful, who has vowed that all living beings, whatever troubles they may meet, if they sincerely call upon His holy name, may receive His succour. In the future, when you travel by night, or suffer troubled dreams, or meet with fear, you may invoke the sacred title, "The Thunder Revered One of the Nine Heavens Responding Origin, Universal Transformation, Heavenly Worthy." There will assuredly be response.' He then gave Chen Lihua a talisman card of protection bearing the name of the Thunder Revered One, together with the Scripture of the Jade Pivot. Chen Lihua expressed his thanks repeatedly, and departed.

In a few days he called the priest again, saying, 'The method you taught me has indeed proved efficacious. One night I dreamt of a monk clad in white, standing in the middle of the road with a look of ill-will. I recited the sacred title of the Thunder Revered One of the Nine Heavens Responding Origin, Universal Transformation, Heavenly Worthy; and before long the monk vanished. On several other occasions when troubled by evil dreams, merely by invoking this sacred name do the evil spirits and fiends depart. The Scripture of the Jade Pivot which you gave me I have wrapped in red cloth and enshrined in my study at home. During this time, all has gone smoothly. I thank you greatly.'

The priest replied, 'Do not thank me; give thanks rather to the compassion and vow of the Heavenly Worthy who protects all.'
