# The Verification of the Sacred Title of Thunder Veneration by Lady Cai of Henan

Lady Cai, a woman from Luoyang in Henan, was born under an ill-starred fate involving the Child Star. From her youth she delighted in reading the scriptures of Buddhism and the Dao. Yet the ties of the world were deeply rooted in her, and her good roots insufficient; wherefore she was unable to renounce the world and practise the Dao. But owing to defects in her natal eight characters, she was frequently troubled by incitements of shadowy spirits and suchlike, which caused her great distress.

In the year of Dinghai, Lady Cai began to learn the practice of sitting meditation. In a state of trance and deep obscurity, it seemed as if a light entered her body, and a sudden cold shudder seized her; it was certain that it was not a divine radiance, but rather a shadowy spirit of some sort. Lady Cai was alarmed, and quickly rose from her mat. At night, when she lay down to sleep, it appeared as if some one was beside her, teasing her in every manner, and consorting with her. At times by day she could also feel such presence.

Lady Cai was greatly frightened and also angered. She therefore called a Daoist priest of the Zhongyue Temple, and inquired for a means of deliverance. The priest said, 'Ordinary persons who have the fate to offend the Child Star, the Floral Canopy, or Void Vacancy, are liable to attract the spirits and demons. If they do not renounce the world, they must take good care and guard themselves, to avoid being invaded by them. The means of deliverance is twofold: first, to take refuge in the Buddhas and the Dao, and thereby become disciples of the Three Treasures, so that evil spirits dare not molest; secondly, to hold and recite the Sacred Title of the Most Honoured Thunder of Universal Transformation, the Responding Origin of the Nine Heavens.' The priest bade Lady Cai come to the Zhongyue Temple before the Zhongyuan Festival to take refuge, make her appeal to the Heavenly Court, and gave her a talisman to wear.

At the time of the Zhongyuan Festival, when the gates of hell are widely opened, Lady Cai was sleeping at home and beheld many ghosts within and without her chamber, some men and some women, some rich and some poor, all very terrifying; some even smiled upon her with ill intent. Lady Cai then silently recited the Sacred Title, 'Responding Origin of the Nine Heavens, Most Honoured Thunder of Universal Transformation.' At first her mind was not very focused; but gradually her heart was quieted and fixed upon the Sacred Title. After about a quarter of an hour, all those things in her room vanished. Lady Cai then deeply believed in the mighty power of the Veneration of the Most Honoured Thunder, and that the Scripture of the Ten Characters of Heaven was no empty tale.
