# A Layman of Henan Seeking the Water Office Method of the Three Officials

Li Shuming was a man of Henan. He was trained as a physician, and had opened a clinic in a certain place in Henan, being a doctor of some local repute. In early years he was devoutly a follower of the Buddhists; yet the years brought him hardship and adversity. Afterwards, at the White Horse Temple in Luoyang, he received instruction from a worthy one, and began to recite the Scripture of the Three Officials; his fortunes then gradually took a turn for the better. From that time he devoutly offered worship to the Three Officials in his home; on every first and fifteenth day of the month, and on the triple festival days, he would fast, prepare offerings, burn incense, recite the Scripture of the Three Officials, and pay reverence to the Three Great Emperors. By his sincere heart he moved the spirits; accordingly, the response was especially manifest.

Li Shuming’s aged mother, this year on account of some cause was afflicted with cough. For more than twenty days, she showed no sign of recovery. At night especially, before going to bed, the cough grew more violent. Li first thought of curing her by medicine; being himself a physician, he prescribed medicines for his aged mother, and not a few, yet still she showed no improvement.

On the first day of the seventh month, Li Shuming according to custom burned incense and recited scripture at home. Before the Three Great Emperors he offered fresh fruits and clear water. Li privately prayed to the Three Officials, saying, ‘I pray the Three Great Emperors to grant medicine, and bless my mother’s body to recover soon.’ When the recitation was finished, he gave the offered water to his sick mother to drink. That very night she ceased from coughing. Li was the more grateful to the Three Great Emperors, for their compassionate mercy in relieving suffering, and their potent and manifest efficacy.

The Water Official in the Scripture of the Three Officials declares: ‘All living beings under heaven, when the stars are in ill correspondence, and the course of fate is slow to move, evil stars assail them, giving rise to many diseases; or pestilence attacks, or dysentery and ulcers invade, or tumours and scabies afflict, climatic maladies invade the throat, wind poisons the throat, diarrhoea and phlegm attack, ancestral tombs emit pestilential air, houses stand on wind-and-water affliction, evil priests oppose the sacred, fiery eyes bring languor and consumption, vomiting blood with venomous curses, white mouth and incantations, weapons, fire, theft and assault, madness and frenzy afflict the body, hanging and shackles oppress, foul gates close with pestilence, years, months, days and hours bring ill fortune, cutting down temples and trees, begging pits and earth-moving, opening foundations and marshes, adding new and changing old, repairing front and back—all these bring affliction. Ague and rash diseases assail, pestilence and pestilential airs invade, official warrants bring quarrels and strife, causing the arising of evil sicknesses that cling to beings and cause them to perish. But if this scripture be recited, even though evil sicknesses might try to cling, lucky stars will protect, evil stars will withdraw, all calamities will melt away like ice, and a thousand auspicious clouds will gather. The scripture passes through the royal domain, and blessings come upon the human world.’

According to the case of Li Shuming, truly so, truly so!
