# The Precepts and Rules of Taoism

On the Exposition of the Precepts

Those who pursue the Way all without exception observe the precepts with earnestness and reverence, that they may accumulate merit and practice. Therefore the Left Immortal said: "To study the Way without cultivating fasting and precepts is but to toil in vain in the mountains and forests." Now the precept is to guard against evil conduct. If one do not observe the precepts, the Way cannot be obtained.

The scriptures of the Three Caverns speak much of precepts; to enumerate briefly the main heads, there are: the Three Refuges Precepts; the Five Precepts of the Initiate; the Eight Precepts; among the laymen and women the Ten Supreme Precepts; the Initial Perfect Ten Precepts for the newly ordained; the Seventy-two Precepts of the Zhengyi Disciples; the One Hundred and Eighty Precepts of Laozi; the Ten Precepts of the Celestial Pure Ones; the Fourteen Precepts of Self-discipline and Perfection; the Five Thousand Texts of the Golden Talisman of the Taiqing Yin-Yang Precepts; the Twenty-seven Precepts of the Supreme and Most Profound Master; the Five, Thirteen, and Seven Hundred and Twenty Precepts of the Three Caverns of the Spirits; the One Hundred and Twenty-nine Precepts of the Ascending Profound Inner Teachings; the Precepts of the Lingbao Initial Covenant to Shut Off the Six Passions; the Great Precepts of Wisdom in the Middle Covenant; the One Hundred and Eighty Precepts of the Great Covenant of the Three Primes; the Three Hundred Great Precepts of the Supreme Clarity Wisdom of Contemplating the Body; the One Thousand Two Hundred Precepts… All these are ancient secret transmissions of Taoism.

Since the beginning of the Qing, Wang Changyue again opened the altar to expound the precepts, reducing the complex to the simple, transmitting certain initial Perfect Precepts, certain Middle Ultimate Precepts, and certain Great Celestial Precepts, thereby establishing a model for the precept altar, simple and clear, complete and comprehensive. Hence for over three hundred years it has been the standard for Taoist practitioners to cultivate the Way and guard the body, the path to accumulating merit and practice. To increase goodness and desist from evil, to return to the True and abandon falsehood, all proceed gradually by this to sudden enlightenment.

The precepts and rules form a part of the ritual norms of Taoism. Here are selected extracts, to show a glimpse of the strict self-discipline of Taoist practitioners.
