# Appendix One: The Confession of Patriarch Qiu

The merit and power of the scripture are vast and inconceivable; I dedicate (them) to the holy assemblies of the ten directions.  
May those who see their true hearts seek repentance, that all sins and obstacles as numerous as the sands of the river may be entirely extinguished.

We confess that, from former kalpas even unto this present life, we have formed our bodies by means of the elements of fire, wind, earth, and water; we have clung to fragrances, tastes, colours, and sounds, and thereby have come to touch the dharmas. We have been covetous, wrathful, jealous, slanderous; we have uttered falsehoods and idle words; we have killed, stolen, indulged in licentiousness, and unbridled our passions. We have reviled our parents, rebelled against sovereigns and teachers; we have been disrespectful towards heaven, earth, and deities; we have scorned the wind and railed against the rain. We have not believed in sin and merit, cause and effect; we have obscured reason and deceived our hearts.

Thus have we brought about retribution, rising and falling; revolving in samsara without ceasing; enduring divers pains and afflictions without respite. All this arises from but a single errant thought; we have obscured and lost our true nature; we falsely identify with the illusions of the six senses; we are drowned in the river of desire. Now that we have obtained the human form, and are blessed with true teaching from our parents, is it not a felicity of a thousand lives? Yet if once we encounter it, ought we not to examine our hearts, and early seek to deliver the world? But if like before we drift and stray, we shall utterly lose the original; we shall fall into the dark path, and be transformed into strange kinds.

Wherefore, pondering the bitterness of sinking and wasting, we now arouse a pure heart, and turn to serve the holy and true; we specially seek repentance, and beseech pity for our ignorance. We pray forgiveness of our offences, explanation to repay grievances, removal and destruction of demonic hindrances; may the life we seek be granted prosperity and good fortune, with our name registered on the Altar of Elixir. May we meet the true master, hear personally the supreme Way, diligently cultivate subtle practice, increase the shoots of goodness, fully dedicate ourselves to the mysterious gate, and delight in the true realm of the spirit. In future days, when the time comes for deliverance, may our true nature not be confused or lost. May we be born into families of the ten virtues, be able to penetrate past destinies, and return to verify the Way of the highest vehicle, and attend upon the Sovereign of Emptiness.

Moreover, we fervently wish for the peace of the nation, the plenty of the people, harmony of seasons and abundant harvests; we wish that the true wind might widely promulgate the transformation and flourishing of the Way; we wish that evil might be changed into goodness, and demons return to rectitude; we wish that military punishments be restrained, prisons left empty; we wish that stagnation be uplifted, and enmities reconciled and released; we wish that those who investigate the profound learning enter the Way and accomplish truth; we wish that all kin through kalpas be delivered; we wish that all masters and friends through generations alike attain the true permanence; we wish that all connections increase their blessings and wisdom; we wish that all beings harmed may soon be born into heaven; we wish that abstinence from food, wine, and flesh may bring no killing; we wish that holding the body upright we may not walk the path of licentiousness; we wish that all niggardliness and greed be broken and all dangers removed; we wish that our words be free from arrogance and our actions precious with sincerity; we wish that we may humble ourselves, spare others, and silently endure anger; we wish that our hearts may be compassionate, our words humble, and reverent towards all; we wish not to fall into extremes nor follow evil views; we wish to form companionship with immortal friends and dwell in pure emptiness; we wish that wisdom be open and bright, and divine powers vast and expansive; we wish to widely practise expedients and universally aid all living beings; we wish to eternally sever attachments and all delusions, all to return to the supreme Way.  
When the dust kalpas have an end, may my wishes be without limit.  
When the dust kalpas have an end, may my wishes be without limit.  
When the dust kalpas have an end, may my wishes be without limit.
